3/22/24, 3:44 PM Obfuscated Files or Information: Stripped Payloads, Sub-technique T1027.008 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1027/008/ 1/3Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:44 PM Obfuscated Files or Information: Stripped Payloads, Sub-technique T1027.008 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1027/008/ 2/3Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Obfuscated Files or Information>Stripped Payloads3/22/24, 3:44 PM Obfuscated Files or Information: Stripped Payloads, Sub-technique T1027.008 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1027/008/ 3/3Obfuscated Files or Information: Stripped Payloads
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S1048 macOS.OSAMiner macOS.OSAMiner has used run-only Applescripts, a compiled and stripped version of AppleScript, to
remove human readable indicators to evade detection.
Mitigations
This type of attack technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on the abuse of system features.
Detection
ID Data SourceData ComponentDetects
DS0022 File File Metadata Detecting the presence of stripped payloads may be diﬃcult and unwarranted in real-time,
though analyzing contextual data about ﬁles (such as content and character entropy) may
highlight attempts at obfuscation.
ReferencesAdversaries may attempt to make a payload diﬃcult to analyze by removing symbols, strings, and other human readable information.
Scripts and executables may contain variables names and other strings that help developers document code functionality. Symbols are
often created by an operating system’s linker when executable payloads are compiled. Reverse engineers use these symbols and strings
to analyze code and to identify functionality in payloads.
Adversaries may use stripped payloads in order to make malware analysis more diﬃcult. For example, compilers and other tools may
provide features to remove or obfuscate strings and symbols. Adversaries have also used stripped payload formats, such as run-only
AppleScripts, a compiled and stripped version of AppleScript, to evade detection and analysis. The lack of human-readable information may
directly hinder detection and analysis of payloads.Other sub-techniques of Obfuscated Files or Information (12)
[1][2]
[3]
Version PermalinkID: T1027.008
Sub-technique of:  T1027

Tactic: Defense Evasion

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS
Version: 1.0
Created: 29 September 2022
Last Modiﬁed: 20 October 2022
[3]
1. STEPHEN ECKELS. (2022, February 28). Ready, Set, Go —
Golang Internals and Symbol Recovery. Retrieved September
29, 2022.
2. Ignacio Sanmillan. (2018, February 7). Executable and
Linkable Format 101. Part 2: Symbols. Retrieved September
29, 2022.3. Phil Stokes. (2021, January 11). FADE DEAD | Adventures in
Reversing Malicious Run-Only AppleScripts. Retrieved
September 29, 2022.