3/22/24, 3:38 PM Create Account, Technique T1136 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1136/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:38 PM Create Account, Technique T1136 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1136/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Create Account3/22/24, 3:38 PM Create Account, Technique T1136 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1136/ 3/4Create Account
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
C0025 2016 Ukraine Electric
Power AttackDuring the 2016 Ukraine Electric Power Attack, Sandworm Team added a login to a SQL Server
with sp\_addlinkedsrvlogin .
G0119 Indrik Spider Indrik Spider used wmic.exe to add a new user to the system.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1032 Multi-factor
AuthenticationUse multi-factor authentication for user and privileged accounts.
M1030 Network
SegmentationConﬁgure access controls and ﬁrewalls to limit access to domain controllers and systems used to
create and manage accounts.
M1028 Operating System
ConﬁgurationProtect domain controllers by ensuring proper security conﬁguration for critical servers.
M1026 Privileged Account
ManagementLimit the number of accounts with permissions to create other accounts. Do not allow domain
administrator accounts to be used for day-to-day operations that may expose them to potential
adversaries on unprivileged systems.Adversaries may create an account to maintain access to victim systems. With a suﬃcient level of access, creating such accounts may be
used to establish secondary credentialed access that do not require persistent remote access tools to be deployed on the system.
Accounts may be created on the local system or within a domain or cloud tenant. In cloud environments, adversaries may create accounts
that only have access to speciﬁc services, which can reduce the chance of detection.Sub-techniques (3)
Version PermalinkID: T1136
Sub-techniques:  T1136.001, T1136.002, T1136.003

Tactic: Persistence

Platforms: Azure AD, Containers, Google Workspace, IaaS, Linux, Network, Oﬃce 365, SaaS, Windows, macOS
Contributors: Austin Clark, @c2defense; Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center (MSTIC); Praetorian
Version: 2.4
Created: 14 December 2017
Last Modiﬁed: 16 October 2023
[1]
[2]3/22/24, 3:38 PM Create Account, Technique T1136 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1136/ 4/4Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments for actions that are associated with account
creation, such as net user or useradd
DS0009 Process Process
CreationMonitor newly executed processes associated with account creation, such as net.exe
DS0002 User AccountUser Account
CreationMonitor for newly constructed user accounts through account audits to detect suspicious
accounts that may have been created by an adversary. Collect data on account creation
within a network or Windows Event ID 4720 (for when a user account is created on a
Windows system and domain controller).
References
1. Joe Slowik. (2018, October 12). Anatomy of an Attack:
Detecting and Defeating CRASHOVERRIDE. Retrieved
December 18, 2020.2. Symantec Threat Intelligence. (2020, June 25). WastedLocker:
Symantec Identiﬁes Wave of Attacks Against U.S.
Organizations. Retrieved May 20, 2021.