3/22/24, 3:40 PM Oﬃce Application Startup: Oﬃce Test, Sub-technique T1137.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1137/002/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:40 PM Oﬃce Application Startup: Oﬃce Test, Sub-technique T1137.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1137/002/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Oﬃce Application Startup>Oﬃce Test3/22/24, 3:40 PM Oﬃce Application Startup: Oﬃce Test, Sub-technique T1137.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1137/002/ 3/4Oﬃce Application Startup: Oﬃce Test
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0007 APT28 APT28 has used the Oﬃce Test persistence mechanism within Microsoft Oﬃce by adding the Registry key
HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Office test\Special\Perf to execute code.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1040 Behavior Prevention
on EndpointOn Windows 10, enable Attack Surface Reduction (ASR) rules to prevent Oﬃce applications from
creating child processes and from writing potentially malicious executable content to disk. 
M1054 Software
ConﬁgurationCreate the Registry key used to execute it and set the permissions to "Read Control" to prevent easy
access to the key without administrator permissions or requiring Privilege Escalation.Adversaries may abuse the Microsoft Oﬃce "Oﬃce Test" Registry key to obtain persistence on a compromised system. An Oﬃce Test
Registry location exists that allows a user to specify an arbitrary DLL that will be executed every time an Oﬃce application is started. This
Registry key is thought to be used by Microsoft to load DLLs for testing and debugging purposes while developing Oﬃce applications. This
Registry key is not created by default during an Oﬃce installation.
There exist user and global Registry keys for the Oﬃce Test feature:
HKEY\_CURRENT\_USER\Software\Microsoft\Office test\Special\Perf
HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Office test\Special\Perf
Adversaries may add this Registry key and specify a malicious DLL that will be executed whenever an Oﬃce application, such as Word or
Excel, is started.Other sub-techniques of Oﬃce Application Startup (6)
[1][2]
Version PermalinkID: T1137.002
Sub-technique of:  T1137

Tactic: Persistence

Platforms: Oﬃce 365, Windows

System Requirements: Oﬃce 2007, 2010, 2013, and 2016

Permissions Required: Administrator, User
Version: 1.1
Created: 07 November 2019
Last Modiﬁed: 16 August 2021
[2]
[3]
[2]3/22/24, 3:40 PM Oﬃce Application Startup: Oﬃce Test, Sub-technique T1137.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1137/002/ 4/4Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that may abuse the Microsoft Oﬃce
"Oﬃce Test" Registry key to obtain persistence on a compromised system.
DS0022 File File Creation Monitor for newly constructed ﬁles that may abuse the Microsoft Oﬃce "Oﬃce
Test" Registry key to obtain persistence on a compromised system.
File Modiﬁcation Monitor for changes made to ﬁles that may abuse the Microsoft Oﬃce "Oﬃce
Test" Registry key to obtain persistence on a compromised system.
DS0011 Module Module Load Monitor DLL/PE ﬁle events, speciﬁcally creation of these binary ﬁles as well as
the loading of DLLs into processes. Look for DLLs that are not recognized or not
normally loaded into a process.
DS0009 Process Process Creation Monitor newly executed processes that may abuse the Microsoft Oﬃce "Oﬃce
Test" Registry key to obtain persistence on a compromised system.
DS0024 Windows RegistryWindows Registry
Key CreationMonitor for the creation of the Oﬃce Test Registry key. Collect events related to
Registry key creation for keys that could be used for Oﬃce-based persistence.
Since v13.52, Autoruns can detect tasks set up using the Oﬃce Test Registry key.
Windows Registry
Key ModiﬁcationMonitor for changes made to the Oﬃce Test Registry key. Collect events related to
Registry key modiﬁcation for keys that could be used for Oﬃce-based
persistence. Since v13.52, Autoruns can detect tasks set up using the Oﬃce Test
Registry key.
References[2]
[2]
1. Hexacorn. (2014, April 16). Beyond good ol’ Run key, Part 10.
Retrieved July 3, 2017.
2. Falcone, R. (2016, July 20). Technical Walkthrough: Oﬃce
Test Persistence Method Used In Recent Sofacy Attacks.
Retrieved July 3, 2017.3. Microsoft. (2021, July 2). Use attack surface reduction rules to
prevent malware infection. Retrieved June 24, 2021.