3/22/24, 3:32 PM Execution, Tactic TA0002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0002/ 1/7Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Execution, Tactic TA0002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0002/ 2/7Home>Tactics>Enterprise>Execution3/22/24, 3:32 PM Execution, Tactic TA0002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0002/ 3/7E x e c u t i o n
T e c h n i q u e s
Techniques: 14The adversary is trying to run malicious code.
Execution consists of techniques that result in adversary-controlled code running on a local or remote system. Techniques that run malicious
code are often paired with techniques from all other tactics to achieve broader goals, like exploring a network or stealing data. For example,
an adversary might use a remote access tool to run a PowerShell script that does Remote System Discovery.
Version PermalinkID: TA0002
Created: 17 October 2018
Last Modiﬁed: 19 July 20193/22/24, 3:32 PM Execution, Tactic TA0002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0002/ 4/7ID Name Description
T1651 Cloud
Administration
CommandAdversaries may abuse cloud management services to execute commands within virtual machines or
hybrid-joined devices. Resources such as AWS Systems Manager, Azure RunCommand, and Runbooks
allow users to remotely run scripts in virtual machines by leveraging installed virtual machine agents.
Similarly, in Azure AD environments, Microsoft Endpoint Manager allows Global or Intune
Administrators to run scripts as SYSTEM on on-premises devices joined to the Azure AD.
T1059 Command and
Scripting
InterpreterAdversaries may abuse command and script interpreters to execute commands, scripts, or binaries.
These interfaces and languages provide ways of interacting with computer systems and are a
common feature across many different platforms. Most systems come with some built-in command-
line interface and scripting capabilities, for example, macOS and Linux distributions include some
ﬂavor of Unix Shell while Windows installations include the Windows Command Shell and PowerShell.
.001 PowerShell Adversaries may abuse PowerShell commands and scripts for execution. PowerShell is a powerful
interactive command-line interface and scripting environment included in the Windows operating
system. Adversaries can use PowerShell to perform a number of actions, including discovery of
information and execution of code. Examples include the Start-Process cmdlet which can be used
to run an executable and the Invoke-Command cmdlet which runs a command locally or on a remote
computer (though administrator permissions are required to use PowerShell to connect to remote
systems).
.002 AppleScript Adversaries may abuse AppleScript for execution. AppleScript is a macOS scripting language
designed to control applications and parts of the OS via inter-application messages called
AppleEvents. These AppleEvent messages can be sent independently or easily scripted with
AppleScript. These events can locate open windows, send keystrokes, and interact with almost any
open application locally or remotely.
.003 Windows
Command ShellAdversaries may abuse the Windows command shell for execution. The Windows command shell
(cmd) is the primary command prompt on Windows systems. The Windows command prompt can be
used to control almost any aspect of a system, with various permission levels required for different
subsets of commands. The command prompt can be invoked remotely via Remote Services such as
SSH.
.004 Unix Shell Adversaries may abuse Unix shell commands and scripts for execution. Unix shells are the primary
command prompt on Linux and macOS systems, though many variations of the Unix shell exist (e.g.
sh, bash, zsh, etc.) depending on the speciﬁc OS or distribution. Unix shells can control every aspect of
a system, with certain commands requiring elevated privileges.
.005 Visual Basic Adversaries may abuse Visual Basic (VB) for execution. VB is a programming language created by
Microsoft with interoperability with many Windows technologies such as Component Object Model
and the Native API through the Windows API. Although tagged as legacy with no planned future
evolutions, VB is integrated and supported in the .NET Framework and cross-platform .NET Core.
.006 Python Adversaries may abuse Python commands and scripts for execution. Python is a very popular
scripting/programming language, with capabilities to perform many functions. Python can be
executed interactively from the command-line (via the python.exe interpreter) or via scripts (.py) that
can be written and distributed to different systems. Python code can also be compiled into binary
executables.
.007 JavaScript Adversaries may abuse various implementations of JavaScript for execution. JavaScript (JS) is a
platform-independent scripting language (compiled just-in-time at runtime) commonly associated with
scripts in webpages, though JS can be executed in runtime environments outside the browser.
.008 Network Device
CLIAdversaries may abuse scripting or built-in command line interpreters (CLI) on network devices to
execute malicious command and payloads. The CLI is the primary means through which users and
administrators interact with the device in order to view system information, modify device operations,
or perform diagnostic and administrative functions. CLIs typically contain various permission levels
required for different commands.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Execution, Tactic TA0002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0002/ 5/7ID Name Description
.009 Cloud API Adversaries may abuse cloud APIs to execute malicious commands. APIs available in cloud
environments provide various functionalities and are a feature-rich method for programmatic access
to nearly all aspects of a tenant. These APIs may be utilized through various methods such as
command line interpreters (CLIs), in-browser Cloud Shells, PowerShell modules like Azure for
PowerShell, or software developer kits (SDKs) available for languages such as Python.
T1609 Container
Administration
CommandAdversaries may abuse a container administration service to execute commands within a container. A
container administration service such as the Docker daemon, the Kubernetes API server, or the kubelet
may allow remote management of containers within an environment.
T1610 Deploy Container Adversaries may deploy a container into an environment to facilitate execution or evade defenses. In
some cases, adversaries may deploy a new container to execute processes associated with a
particular image or deployment, such as processes that execute or download malware. In others, an
adversary may deploy a new container conﬁgured without network rules, user limitations, etc. to
bypass existing defenses within the environment.
T1203 Exploitation for
Client ExecutionAdversaries may exploit software vulnerabilities in client applications to execute code. Vulnerabilities
can exist in software due to unsecure coding practices that can lead to unanticipated behavior.
Adversaries can take advantage of certain vulnerabilities through targeted exploitation for the purpose
of arbitrary code execution. Oftentimes the most valuable exploits to an offensive toolkit are those
that can be used to obtain code execution on a remote system because they can be used to gain
access to that system. Users will expect to see ﬁles related to the applications they commonly used to
do work, so they are a useful target for exploit research and development because of their high utility.
T1559 Inter-Process
CommunicationAdversaries may abuse inter-process communication (IPC) mechanisms for local code or command
execution. IPC is typically used by processes to share data, communicate with each other, or
synchronize execution. IPC is also commonly used to avoid situations such as deadlocks, which
occurs when processes are stuck in a cyclic waiting pattern.
.001 Component
Object ModelAdversaries may use the Windows Component Object Model (COM) for local code execution. COM is
an inter-process communication (IPC) component of the native Windows application programming
interface (API) that enables interaction between software objects, or executable code that implements
one or more interfaces. Through COM, a client object can call methods of server objects, which are
typically binary Dynamic Link Libraries (DLL) or executables (EXE). Remote COM execution is
facilitated by Remote Services such as Distributed Component Object Model (DCOM).
.002 Dynamic Data
ExchangeAdversaries may use Windows Dynamic Data Exchange (DDE) to execute arbitrary commands. DDE is
a client-server protocol for one-time and/or continuous inter-process communication (IPC) between
applications. Once a link is established, applications can autonomously exchange transactions
consisting of strings, warm data links (notiﬁcations when a data item changes), hot data links
(duplications of changes to a data item), and requests for command execution.
.003 XPC Services Adversaries can provide malicious content to an XPC service daemon for local code execution. macOS
uses XPC services for basic inter-process communication between various processes, such as
between the XPC Service daemon and third-party application privileged helper tools. Applications can
send messages to the XPC Service daemon, which runs as root, using the low-level XPC Service C API
or the high level NSXPCConnection API in order to handle tasks that require elevated privileges (such
as network connections). Applications are responsible for providing the protocol deﬁnition which
serves as a blueprint of the XPC services. Developers typically use XPC Services to provide
applications stability and privilege separation between the application client and the daemon.
T1106 Native API Adversaries may interact with the native OS application programming interface (API) to execute
behaviors. Native APIs provide a controlled means of calling low-level OS services within the kernel,
such as those involving hardware/devices, memory, and processes. These native APIs are leveraged
by the OS during system boot (when other system components are not yet initialized) as well as
carrying out tasks and requests during routine operations.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Execution, Tactic TA0002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0002/ 6/7ID Name Description
T1053 Scheduled
Task/JobAdversaries may abuse task scheduling functionality to facilitate initial or recurring execution of
malicious code. Utilities exist within all major operating systems to schedule programs or scripts to be
executed at a speciﬁed date and time. A task can also be scheduled on a remote system, provided the
proper authentication is met (ex: RPC and ﬁle and printer sharing in Windows environments).
Scheduling a task on a remote system typically may require being a member of an admin or otherwise
privileged group on the remote system.
.002 At Adversaries may abuse the at utility to perform task scheduling for initial or recurring execution of
malicious code. The at utility exists as an executable within Windows, Linux, and macOS for
scheduling tasks at a speciﬁed time and date. Although deprecated in favor of Scheduled Task's
schtasks in Windows environments, using at requires that the Task Scheduler service be running, and
the user to be logged on as a member of the local Administrators group.
.003 Cron Adversaries may abuse the cron utility to perform task scheduling for initial or recurring execution of
malicious code. The cron utility is a time-based job scheduler for Unix-like operating systems. The
crontab ﬁle contains the schedule of cron entries to be run and the speciﬁed times for execution. Any
crontab ﬁles are stored in operating system-speciﬁc ﬁle paths.
.005 Scheduled Task Adversaries may abuse the Windows Task Scheduler to perform task scheduling for initial or recurring
execution of malicious code. There are multiple ways to access the Task Scheduler in Windows. The
schtasks utility can be run directly on the command line, or the Task Scheduler can be opened through
the GUI within the Administrator Tools section of the Control Panel. In some cases, adversaries have
used a .NET wrapper for the Windows Task Scheduler, and alternatively, adversaries have used the
Windows netapi32 library to create a scheduled task.
.006 Systemd Timers Adversaries may abuse systemd timers to perform task scheduling for initial or recurring execution of
malicious code. Systemd timers are unit ﬁles with ﬁle extension .timer that control services. Timers
can be set to run on a calendar event or after a time span relative to a starting point. They can be used
as an alternative to Cron in Linux environments. Systemd timers may be activated remotely via the
systemctl command line utility, which operates over SSH.
.007 Container
Orchestration JobAdversaries may abuse task scheduling functionality provided by container orchestration tools such
as Kubernetes to schedule deployment of containers conﬁgured to execute malicious code. Container
orchestration jobs run these automated tasks at a speciﬁc date and time, similar to cron jobs on a
Linux system. Deployments of this type can also be conﬁgured to maintain a quantity of containers
over time, automating the process of maintaining persistence within a cluster.
T1648 Serverless
ExecutionAdversaries may abuse serverless computing, integration, and automation services to execute
arbitrary code in cloud environments. Many cloud providers offer a variety of serverless resources,
including compute engines, application integration services, and web servers.
T1129 Shared Modules Adversaries may execute malicious payloads via loading shared modules. Shared modules are
executable ﬁles that are loaded into processes to provide access to reusable code, such as speciﬁc
custom functions or invoking OS API functions (i.e., Native API).
T1072 Software
Deployment ToolsAdversaries may gain access to and use third-party software suites installed within an enterprise
network, such as administration, monitoring, and deployment systems, to move laterally through the
network. Third-party applications and software deployment systems may be in use in the network
environment for administration purposes (e.g., SCCM, HBSS, Altiris, etc.).
T1569 System Services Adversaries may abuse system services or daemons to execute commands or programs. Adversaries
can execute malicious content by interacting with or creating services either locally or remotely. Many
services are set to run at boot, which can aid in achieving persistence (Create or Modify System
Process), but adversaries can also abuse services for one-time or temporary execution.
.001 Launchctl Adversaries may abuse launchctl to execute commands or programs. Launchctl interfaces with
launchd, the service management framework for macOS. Launchctl supports taking subcommands
on the command-line, interactively, or even redirected from standard input.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Execution, Tactic TA0002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0002/ 7/7ID Name Description
.002 Service Execution Adversaries may abuse the Windows service control manager to execute malicious commands or
payloads. The Windows service control manager (services.exe ) is an interface to manage and
manipulate services. The service control manager is accessible to users via GUI components as well
as system utilities such as sc.exe and Net.
T1204 User Execution An adversary may rely upon speciﬁc actions by a user in order to gain execution. Users may be
subjected to social engineering to get them to execute malicious code by, for example, opening a
malicious document ﬁle or link. These user actions will typically be observed as follow-on behavior
from forms of Phishing.
.001 Malicious Link An adversary may rely upon a user clicking a malicious link in order to gain execution. Users may be
subjected to social engineering to get them to click on a link that will lead to code execution. This user
action will typically be observed as follow-on behavior from Spearphishing Link. Clicking on a link
may also lead to other execution techniques such as exploitation of a browser or application
vulnerability via Exploitation for Client Execution. Links may also lead users to download ﬁles that
require execution via Malicious File.
.002 Malicious File An adversary may rely upon a user opening a malicious ﬁle in order to gain execution. Users may be
subjected to social engineering to get them to open a ﬁle that will lead to code execution. This user
action will typically be observed as follow-on behavior from Spearphishing Attachment. Adversaries
may use several types of ﬁles that require a user to execute them, including .doc, .pdf, .xls, .rtf, .scr,
.exe, .lnk, .pif, and .cpl.
.003 Malicious Image Adversaries may rely on a user running a malicious image to facilitate execution. Amazon Web
Services (AWS) Amazon Machine Images (AMIs), Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Images, and Azure
Images as well as popular container runtimes such as Docker can be backdoored. Backdoored images
may be uploaded to a public repository via Upload Malware, and users may then download and deploy
an instance or container from the image without realizing the image is malicious, thus bypassing
techniques that speciﬁcally achieve Initial Access. This can lead to the execution of malicious code,
such as code that executes cryptocurrency mining, in the instance or container.
T1047 Windows
Management
InstrumentationAdversaries may abuse Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) to execute malicious
commands and payloads. WMI is an administration feature that provides a uniform environment to
access Windows system components. The WMI service enables both local and remote access, though
the latter is facilitated by Remote Services such as Distributed Component Object Model (DCOM) and
Windows Remote Management (WinRM). Remote WMI over DCOM operates using port 135, whereas
WMI over WinRM operates over port 5985 when using HTTP and 5986 for HTTPS.