3/22/24, 3:38 PM Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts: Login Hook, Sub-technique T1037.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1037/002/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:38 PM Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts: Login Hook, Sub-technique T1037.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1037/002/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts>Login Hook3/22/24, 3:38 PM Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts: Login Hook, Sub-technique T1037.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1037/002/ 3/4Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts: Login Hook
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1022 Restrict File and Directory Permissions Restrict write access to logon scripts to speciﬁc administrators.
Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands with arguments to install or modify login hooks.
DS0022 File File Creation Monitor for the creation of and/or changes to login hook ﬁles
(/Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow.plist ), especially by unusual accounts
outside of normal administration duties.
File Modiﬁcation Monitor for changes to login hook ﬁles
(/Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow.plist ), especially by unusual accounts
outside of normal administration duties.
DS0009 Process Process Creation Monitor for processes and/or command-lines to install or modify login hooks, as well as
processes spawned at user login by these hooks.Adversaries may use a Login Hook to establish persistence executed upon user logon. A login hook is a plist ﬁle that points to a speciﬁc
script to execute with root privileges upon user logon. The plist ﬁle is located in the
/Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow.plist ﬁle and can be modiﬁed using the defaults command-line utility. This behavior
is the same for logout hooks where a script can be executed upon user logout. All hooks require administrator permissions to modify or
create hooks.
Adversaries can add or insert a path to a malicious script in the com.apple.loginwindow.plist ﬁle, using the LoginHook or LogoutHook
key-value pair. The malicious script is executed upon the next user login. If a login hook already exists, adversaries can add additional
commands to an existing login hook. There can be only one login and logout hook on a system at a time.
N o t e : Login hooks were deprecated in 10.11 version of macOS in favor of Launch Daemon and Launch AgentOther sub-techniques of Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts (5)
[1][2]
[3][4]
Version PermalinkID: T1037.002
Sub-technique of:  T1037

Tactics: Persistence, Privilege Escalation

Platforms: macOS
Version: 2.0
Created: 10 January 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 20 April 20223/22/24, 3:38 PM Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts: Login Hook, Sub-technique T1037.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1037/002/ 4/4References
1. Apple. (2016, September 13). Customizing Login and Logout.
Retrieved April 1, 2022.
2. Apple. (n.d.). LoginWindowScripts. Retrieved April 1, 2022.3. Stokes, P. (2019, July 17). How Malware Persists on macOS.
Retrieved March 27, 2020.
4. Patrick Wardle. (n.d.). Chapter 0x2: Persistence. Retrieved April
13, 2022.