3/22/24, 3:45 PM Unused/Unsupported Cloud Regions, Technique T1535 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1535/ 1/1Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.
Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Unused/Unsupported Cloud Regions
Unused/Unsupported Cloud Regions
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1054 Software Conﬁguration Cloud service providers may allow customers to deactivate unused regions.
Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0030 Instance Instance
CreationMonitor system logs to review instance activities occurring across all cloud environments
and regions.
Instance
MetadataMonitor and consider conﬁguring alerting to notify of activity in normally unused regions or if
the number of instances active in a region goes above a certain threshold.
ReferencesAdversaries may create cloud instances in unused geographic service regions in order to evade detection. Access is usually obtained through
compromising accounts used to manage cloud infrastructure.
Cloud service providers often provide infrastructure throughout the world in order to improve performance, provide redundancy, and allow
customers to meet compliance requirements. Oftentimes, a customer will only use a subset of the available regions and may not actively
monitor other regions. If an adversary creates resources in an unused region, they may be able to operate undetected.
A variation on this behavior takes advantage of differences in functionality across cloud regions. An adversary could utilize regions which
do not support advanced detection services in order to avoid detection of their activity.
An example of adversary use of unused AWS regions is to mine cryptocurrency through Resource Hijacking, which can cost organizations
substantial amounts of money over time depending on the processing power used.[1]
Version PermalinkID: T1535
Sub-techniques:  No sub-techniques

Tactic: Defense Evasion

Platforms: IaaS

Permissions Required: User
Contributors: Netskope
Version: 1.1
Created: 04 September 2019
Last Modiﬁed: 22 April 2021
[1]
1. CloudSploit. (2019, June 8). The Danger of Unused AWS
Regions. Retrieved October 8, 2019.