3/22/24, 3:34 PM Acquire Infrastructure, Technique T1583 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1583/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:34 PM Acquire Infrastructure, Technique T1583 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1583/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Acquire Infrastructure3/22/24, 3:34 PM Acquire Infrastructure, Technique T1583 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1583/ 3/4Acquire Infrastructure
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1056 Pre-
compromiseThis technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on behaviors performed
outside of the scope of enterprise defenses and controls.Adversaries may buy, lease, or rent infrastructure that can be used during targeting. A wide variety of infrastructure exists for hosting and
orchestrating adversary operations. Infrastructure solutions include physical or cloud servers, domains, and third-party web services.
Additionally, botnets are available for rent or purchase.
Use of these infrastructure solutions allows adversaries to stage, launch, and execute operations. Solutions may help adversary operations
blend in with traﬃc that is seen as normal, such as contacting third-party web services or acquiring infrastructure to support Proxy, including
from residential proxy services. Depending on the implementation, adversaries may use infrastructure that makes it diﬃcult to
physically tie back to them as well as utilize infrastructure that can be rapidly provisioned, modiﬁed, and shut down.Sub-techniques (8)
[1]
[2][3][4]
Version PermalinkID: T1583
Sub-techniques:  T1583.001, T1583.002, T1583.003, T1583.004, T1583.005, T1583.006, T1583.007, T1583.008

Tactic: Resource Development

Platforms: PRE
Contributors: Goldstein Menachem; Shailesh Tiwary (Indian Army)
Version: 1.3
Created: 30 September 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 02 October 20233/22/24, 3:34 PM Acquire Infrastructure, Technique T1583 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1583/ 4/4Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0038 Domain NameActive DNS Monitor for queried domain name system (DNS) registry data that may buy, lease, or rent
infrastructure that can be used during targeting. Detection efforts may be focused on
related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Command and Control.
Domain
RegistrationConsider use of services that may aid in tracking of newly acquired infrastructure, such as
WHOIS databases for domain registration information. Detection efforts may be focused
on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Command and Control.
Passive DNS Monitor for logged domain name system (DNS) data that may buy, lease, or rent
infrastructure that can be used during targeting. Detection efforts may be focused on
related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Command and Control.
DS0035 Internet Scan Response
ContentOnce adversaries have provisioned infrastructure (ex: a server for use in command and
control), internet scans may help proactively discover adversary acquired infrastructure.
Consider looking for identiﬁable patterns such as services listening, certiﬁcates in use,
SSL/TLS negotiation features, or other response artifacts associated with adversary C2
software. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary
lifecycle, such as during Command and Control.
Response
MetadataMonitor for contextual data about an Internet-facing resource gathered from a scan, such
as running services or ports that may buy, lease, or rent infrastructure that can be used
during targeting. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary
lifecycle, such as during Command and Control.
References[5][6][7]
1. Max Goncharov. (2015, July 15). Criminal Hideouts for Lease:
Bulletproof Hosting Services. Retrieved March 6, 2017.
2. Amnesty International Security Lab. (2021, July 18). Forensic
Methodology Report: How to catch NSO Group’s Pegasus.
Retrieved February 22, 2022.
3. FBI. (2022, August 18). Proxies and Conﬁgurations Used for
Credential Stuﬃng Attacks on Online Customer Accounts .
Retrieved July 6, 2023.
4. Douglas Bienstock. (2022, August 18). You Can’t Audit Me:
APT29 Continues Targeting Microsoft 365. Retrieved February
23, 2023.5. ThreatConnect. (2020, December 15). Infrastructure Research
and Hunting: Boiling the Domain Ocean. Retrieved October 12,
2021.
. Stephens, A. (2020, July 13). SCANdalous! (External Detection
Using Network Scan Data and Automation). Retrieved October
12, 2021.
7. Koczwara, M. (2021, September 7). Hunting Cobalt Strike C2
with Shodan. Retrieved October 12, 2021.