3/22/24, 3:35 PM Obtain Capabilities: Code Signing Certiﬁcates, Sub-technique T1588.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1588/003/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:35 PM Obtain Capabilities: Code Signing Certiﬁcates, Sub-technique T1588.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1588/003/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Obtain Capabilities>Code Signing Certiﬁcates3/22/24, 3:35 PM Obtain Capabilities: Code Signing Certiﬁcates, Sub-technique T1588.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1588/003/ 3/4Obtain Capabilities: Code Signing Certiﬁcates
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0098 BlackTech BlackTech has used stolen code-signing certiﬁcates for its malicious payloads.
G1003 Ember Bear Ember Bear has stolen legitimate certiﬁcates to sign malicious payloads.
G0061 FIN8 FIN8 has used an expired open-source X.509 certiﬁcate for testing in the OpenSSL repository, to connect
to actor-controlled C2 servers.
S0576 MegaCortex MegaCortex has used code signing certiﬁcates issued to fake companies to bypass security controls.
C0022 Operation Dream
JobDuring Operation Dream Job, Lazarus Group used code signing certiﬁcates issued by Sectigo RSA for
some of its malware and tools.
G0027 Threat Group-
3390Threat Group-3390 has obtained stolen valid certiﬁcates, including from VMProtect and the Chinese
instant messaging application Youdu, for their operations.
G0102 Wizard Spider Wizard Spider has obtained code signing certiﬁcates signed by DigiCert, GlobalSign, and COMOOD for
malware payloads.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1056 Pre-
compromiseThis technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on behaviors performed
outside of the scope of enterprise defenses and controls.Adversaries may buy and/or steal code signing certiﬁcates that can be used during targeting. Code signing is the process of digitally signing
executables and scripts to conﬁrm the software author and guarantee that the code has not been altered or corrupted. Code signing provides
a level of authenticity for a program from the developer and a guarantee that the program has not been tampered with. Users and/or
security tools may trust a signed piece of code more than an unsigned piece of code even if they don't know who issued the certiﬁcate or
who the author is.
Prior to Code Signing, adversaries may purchase or steal code signing certiﬁcates for use in operations. The purchase of code signing
certiﬁcates may be done using a front organization or using information stolen from a previously compromised entity that allows the
adversary to validate to a certiﬁcate provider as that entity. Adversaries may also steal code signing materials directly from a compromised
third-party.Other sub-techniques of Obtain Capabilities (6)
[1]
Version PermalinkID: T1588.003
Sub-technique of:  T1588

Tactic: Resource Development

Platforms: PRE
Version: 1.1
Created: 01 October 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 17 October 2021
[2]
[3]
[4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8][9]3/22/24, 3:35 PM Obtain Capabilities: Code Signing Certiﬁcates, Sub-technique T1588.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1588/003/ 4/4Detection
ID Data Source Data ComponentDetects
DS0004 Malware RepositoryMalware
MetadataConsider analyzing code signing certiﬁcates for features that may be associated with
the adversary and/or their developers, such as the thumbprint, algorithm used,
validity period, common name, and certiﬁcate authority. Malware repositories can
also be used to identify additional samples associated with the adversary and
identify patterns an adversary has used in procuring code signing certiﬁcates.Much
of this activity will take place outside the visibility of the target organization, making
detection of this behavior diﬃcult. Detection efforts may be focused on related
follow-on behavior, such as Code Signing or Install Root Certiﬁcate.
References
1. Wikipedia. (2015, November 10). Code Signing. Retrieved
March 31, 2016.
2. Threat Intelligence. (2020, September 29). Palmerworm:
Espionage Gang Targets the Media, Finance, and Other
Sectors. Retrieved March 25, 2022.
3. Unit 42. (2022, February 25). Spear Phishing Attacks Target
Organizations in Ukraine, Payloads Include the Document
Stealer OutSteel and the Downloader SaintBot. Retrieved June
9, 2022.
4. Budaca, E., et al. (2021, August 25). FIN8 Threat Actor Goes
Agile with New Sardonic Backdoor. Retrieved August 9, 2023.
5. Del Fierro, C. Kessem, L.. (2020, January 8). From Mega to
Giga: Cross-Version Comparison of Top MegaCortex
Modiﬁcations. Retrieved February 15, 2021.. Breitenbacher, D and Osis, K. (2020, June 17). OPERATION
IN(TER)CEPTION: Targeted Attacks Against European
Aerospace and Military Companies. Retrieved December 20,
2021.
7. Daniel Lunghi. (2023, March 1). Iron Tiger’s SysUpdate
Reappears, Adds Linux Targeting. Retrieved March 20, 2023.
. The DFIR Report. (2020, November 5). Ryuk Speed Run, 2
Hours to Ransom. Retrieved November 6, 2020.
9. Shilko, J., et al. (2021, October 7). FIN12: The Proliﬁc
Ransomware Intrusion Threat Actor That Has Aggressively
Pursued Healthcare Targets. Retrieved June 15, 2023.