3/22/24, 3:34 PM Acquire Infrastructure: Virtual Private Server, Sub-technique T1583.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1583/003/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:34 PM Acquire Infrastructure: Virtual Private Server, Sub-technique T1583.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1583/003/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Acquire Infrastructure>Virtual Private Server3/22/24, 3:34 PM Acquire Infrastructure: Virtual Private Server, Sub-technique T1583.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1583/003/ 3/4Acquire Infrastructure: Virtual Private Server
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0001 Axiom Axiom has used VPS hosting providers in targeting of intended victims.
G0035 Dragonﬂy Dragonﬂy has acquired VPS infrastructure for use in malicious campaigns.
G0125 HAFNIUM HAFNIUM has operated from leased virtual private servers (VPS) in the United States.
G1004 LAPSUS$ LAPSUS$ has used VPS hosting providers for infrastructure.
G0088 TEMP.Veles TEMP.Veles has used Virtual Private Server (VPS) infrastructure.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1056 Pre-
compromiseThis technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on behaviors performed
outside of the scope of enterprise defenses and controls.Adversaries may rent Virtual Private Servers (VPSs) that can be used during targeting. There exist a variety of cloud service providers that
will sell virtual machines/containers as a service. By utilizing a VPS, adversaries can make it diﬃcult to physically tie back operations to
them. The use of cloud infrastructure can also make it easier for adversaries to rapidly provision, modify, and shut down their infrastructure.
Acquiring a VPS for use in later stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as Command and Control, can allow adversaries to beneﬁt from the
ubiquity and trust associated with higher reputation cloud service providers. Adversaries may also acquire infrastructure from VPS service
providers that are known for renting VPSs with minimal registration information, allowing for more anonymous acquisitions of
infrastructure.Other sub-techniques of Acquire Infrastructure (8)
[1]
Version PermalinkID: T1583.003
Sub-technique of:  T1583

Tactic: Resource Development

Platforms: PRE
Version: 1.1
Created: 01 October 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 17 October 2021
[2]
[3]
[4]
[5]
[6]3/22/24, 3:34 PM Acquire Infrastructure: Virtual Private Server, Sub-technique T1583.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1583/003/ 4/4Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0035 Internet Scan Response
ContentOnce adversaries have provisioned a VPS (ex: for use as a command and control server),
internet scans may reveal servers that adversaries have acquired. Consider looking for
identiﬁable patterns such as services listening, certiﬁcates in use, SSL/TLS negotiation
features, or other response artifacts associated with adversary C2 software. Much of
this activity will take place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection
of this behavior diﬃcult. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the
adversary lifecycle, such as during Command and Control.
Response
MetadataMuch of this activity will take place outside the visibility of the target organization, making
detection of this behavior diﬃcult. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of
the adversary lifecycle, such as during Command and Control.
References[7][8][9]
1. Max Goncharov. (2015, July 15). Criminal Hideouts for Lease:
Bulletproof Hosting Services. Retrieved March 6, 2017.
2. Novetta. (n.d.). Operation SMN: Axiom Threat Actor Group
Report. Retrieved November 12, 2014.
3. Slowik, J. (2021, October). THE BAFFLING BERSERK BEAR: A
DECADE’S ACTIVITY TARGETING CRITICAL
INFRASTRUCTURE. Retrieved December 6, 2021.
4. MSTIC. (2021, March 2). HAFNIUM targeting Exchange
Servers with 0-day exploits. Retrieved March 3, 2021.
5. MSTIC, DART, M365 Defender. (2022, March 24). DEV-0537
Criminal Actor Targeting Organizations for Data Exﬁltration
and Destruction. Retrieved May 17, 2022.. Miller, S, et al. (2019, April 10). TRITON Actor TTP Proﬁle,
Custom Attack Tools, Detections, and ATT&CK Mapping.
Retrieved April 16, 2019.
7. ThreatConnect. (2020, December 15). Infrastructure Research
and Hunting: Boiling the Domain Ocean. Retrieved October 12,
2021.
. Stephens, A. (2020, July 13). SCANdalous! (External Detection
Using Network Scan Data and Automation). Retrieved October
12, 2021.
9. Koczwara, M. (2021, September 7). Hunting Cobalt Strike C2
with Shodan. Retrieved October 12, 2021.