3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter, Technique T1059 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/ 1/8Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter, Technique T1059 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/ 2/8Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Command and Scripting Interpreter3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter, Technique T1059 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/ 3/8Command and Scripting Interpreter
Adversaries may abuse command and script interpreters to execute commands, scripts, or binaries. These interfaces and languages provide
ways of interacting with computer systems and are a common feature across many different platforms. Most systems come with some
built-in command-line interface and scripting capabilities, for example, macOS and Linux distributions include some ﬂavor of Unix Shell
while Windows installations include the Windows Command Shell and PowerShell.
There are also cross-platform interpreters such as Python, as well as those commonly associated with client applications such as
JavaScript and Visual Basic.
Adversaries may abuse these technologies in various ways as a means of executing arbitrary commands. Commands and scripts can be
embedded in Initial Access payloads delivered to victims as lure documents or as secondary payloads downloaded from an existing C2.
Adversaries may also execute commands through interactive terminals/shells, as well as utilize various Remote Services in order to achieve
remote Execution.Sub-techniques (9)
[1][2][3]
Version PermalinkID: T1059
Sub-techniques:  T1059.001, T1059.002, T1059.003, T1059.004, T1059.005, T1059.006, T1059.007, T1059.008, T1059.009

Tactic: Execution

Platforms: Azure AD, Google Workspace, IaaS, Linux, Network, Oﬃce 365, Windows, macOS

Supports Remote:  Yes
Version: 2.4
Created: 31 May 2017
Last Modiﬁed: 27 March 20233/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter, Technique T1059 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/ 4/8Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0073 APT19 APT19 downloaded and launched code within a SCT ﬁle.
G0050 APT32 APT32 has used COM scriptlets to download Cobalt Strike beacons.
G0067 APT37 APT37 has used Ruby scripts to execute payloads.
G0087 APT39 APT39 has utilized AutoIt and custom scripts to perform internal reconnaissance.
S0234 Bandook Bandook can support commands to execute Java-based payloads.
S0486 Bonadan Bonadan can create bind and reverse shells on the infected system.
S0023 CHOPSTICK CHOPSTICK is capable of performing remote command execution.
S0334 DarkComet DarkComet can execute various types of scripts on the victim’s machine.
S0695 Donut Donut can generate shellcode outputs that execute via Ruby.
G0035 Dragonﬂy Dragonﬂy has used the command line for execution.
S0363 Empire Empire uses a command-line interface to interact with systems.
G0053 FIN5 FIN5 scans processes on all victim systems in the environment and uses automated scripts to pull back
the results.
G0037 FIN6 FIN6 has used scripting to iterate through a list of compromised PoS systems, copy data to a log ﬁle, and
remove the original data ﬁles.
G0046 FIN7 FIN7 used SQL scripts to help perform tasks on the victim's machine.
S0618 FIVEHANDS FIVEHANDS can receive a command line argument to limit ﬁle encryption to speciﬁed directories.
G0117 Fox Kitten Fox Kitten has used a Perl reverse shell to communicate with C2.
S0460 Get2 Get2 has the ability to run executables with command-line arguments.
S0032 gh0st RAT gh0st RAT is able to open a remote shell to execute commands.
S0434 Imminent
MonitorImminent Monitor has a CommandPromptPacket and ScriptPacket module(s) for creating a remote shell
and executing scripts.
G0004 Ke3chang Malware used by Ke3chang can run commands on the command-line interface.
S0487 Kessel Kessel can create a reverse shell between the infected host and a speciﬁed system.
S0167 Matryoshka Matryoshka is capable of providing Meterpreter shell access.
S0530 Melcoz Melcoz has been distributed through an AutoIt loader script.
G0049 OilRig OilRig has used various types of scripting for execution.
C0005 Operation
SpalaxFor Operation Spalax, the threat actors used Nullsoft Scriptable Install System (NSIS) scripts to install
malware.
S0598 P.A.S. Webshell P.A.S. Webshell has the ability to create reverse shells with Perl scripts.[4]
[5]
[6]
[7][8]
[9]
[10]
[11][12]
[13]
[14]
[15]
[16]
[17]
[18][19]
[20][21][20]
[22][23]
[24]
[25]
[26][27]
[28]
[29][30]
[10]
[31]
[32]
[33][34][35][36][37]
[38]
[39]3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter, Technique T1059 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/ 5/8ID Name Description
S0428 PoetRAT PoetRAT has executed a Lua script through a Lua interpreter for Windows.
S0374 SpeakUp SpeakUp uses Perl scripts.
G0038 Stealth Falcon Stealth Falcon malware uses WMI to script data collection and command execution on the victim.
G0107 Whiteﬂy Whiteﬂy has used a simple remote shell tool that will call back to the C2 server and wait for commands.
G0124 Windigo Windigo has used a Perl script for information gathering.
S0219 WINERACK WINERACK can create a reverse shell that utilizes statically-linked Wine cmd.exe code to emulate Windows
command prompt commands.
S0330 Zeus Panda Zeus Panda can launch remote scripts on the victim’s machine.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1049 Antivirus/Antimalware Anti-virus can be used to automatically quarantine suspicious ﬁles.
M1040 Behavior Prevention on
EndpointOn Windows 10, enable Attack Surface Reduction (ASR) rules to prevent Visual Basic and
JavaScript scripts from executing potentially malicious downloaded content .
M1045 Code Signing Where possible, only permit execution of signed scripts.
M1042 Disable or Remove Feature
or ProgramDisable or remove any unnecessary or unused shells or interpreters.
M1038 Execution Prevention Use application control where appropriate. For example, PowerShell Constrained Language
mode can be used to restrict access to sensitive or otherwise dangerous language elements
such as those used to execute arbitrary Windows APIs or ﬁles (e.g., Add-Type ).
M1026 Privileged Account
ManagementWhen PowerShell is necessary, consider restricting PowerShell execution policy to
administrators. Be aware that there are methods of bypassing the PowerShell execution policy,
depending on environment conﬁguration.
PowerShell JEA (Just Enough Administration) may also be used to sandbox administration
and limit what commands admins/users can execute through remote PowerShell sessions.
M1021 Restrict Web-Based
ContentScript blocking extensions can help prevent the execution of scripts and HTA ﬁles that may
commonly be used during the exploitation process. For malicious code served up through ads,
adblockers can help prevent that code from executing in the ﬁrst place.[40]
[41]
[42]
[43]
[10]
[44]
[45]
[46]
[47]
[48]
[49]3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter, Technique T1059 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/ 6/8Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor command-line arguments for script execution and subsequent behavior. Actions may
be related to network and system information Discovery, Collection, or other scriptable post-
compromise behaviors and could be used as indicators of detection leading back to the
source script. Scripts are likely to perform actions with various effects on a system that may
generate events, depending on the types of monitoring used.
DS0011 Module Module Load Monitor for events associated with scripting execution, such as the loading of modules
associated with scripting languages (ex: JScript.dll or vbscript.dll).
DS0009 Process Process
CreationMonitor log ﬁles for process execution through command-line and scripting activities. This
information can be useful in gaining additional insight to adversaries' actions through how
they use native processes or custom tools. Also monitor for loading of modules associated
with speciﬁc languages.
Process
MetadataMonitor contextual data about a running process, which may include information such as
environment variables, image name, user/owner, or other information that may reveal abuse
of system features. For example, consider monitoring for Windows Event ID (EID) 400, which
shows the version of PowerShell executing in the EngineVersion ﬁeld (which may also be
relevant to detecting a potential Downgrade Attack) as well as if PowerShell is running locally
or remotely in the HostName ﬁeld. Furthermore, EID 400 may indicate the start time and EID
403 indicates the end time of a PowerShell session.
DS0012 Script Script
ExecutionMonitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system would be considered
suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of
cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be
captured from the ﬁle system when possible to determine their actions and intent.[50]3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter, Technique T1059 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/ 7/8References
1. Microsoft. (2020, August 21). Running Remote Commands.
Retrieved July 26, 2021.
2. Cisco. (n.d.). Cisco IOS Software Integrity Assurance -
Command History. Retrieved October 21, 2020.
3. Abdou Rockikz. (2020, July). How to Execute Shell Commands
in a Remote Machine in Python. Retrieved July 26, 2021.
4. Ahl, I. (2017, June 06). Privileges and Credentials: Phished at
the Request of Counsel. Retrieved May 17, 2018.
5. Dahan, A. (2017). Operation Cobalt Kitty. Retrieved December
27, 2018.
. Cash, D., Grunzweig, J., Adair, S., Lancaster, T. (2021, August
25). North Korean BLUELIGHT Special: InkySquid Deploys
RokRAT. Retrieved October 1, 2021.
7. Hawley et al. (2019, January 29). APT39: An Iranian Cyber
Espionage Group Focused on Personal Information. Retrieved
February 19, 2019.
. FBI. (2020, September 17). Indicators of Compromise
Associated with Rana Intelligence Computing, also known as
Advanced Persistent Threat 39, Chafer, Cadelspy, Remexi, and
ITG07. Retrieved December 10, 2020.
9. Check Point. (2020, November 26). Bandook: Signed &
Delivered. Retrieved May 31, 2021.
10. Dumont, R., M.Léveillé, M., Porcher, H. (2018, December 1).
THE DARK SIDE OF THE FORSSHE A landscape of OpenSSH
backdoors. Retrieved July 16, 2020.
11. Alperovitch, D.. (2016, June 15). Bears in the Midst: Intrusion
into the Democratic National Committee. Retrieved August 3,
2016.
12. ESET. (2016, October). En Route with Sednit - Part 2:
Observing the Comings and Goings. Retrieved November 21,
2016.
13. Kujawa, A. (2018, March 27). You dirty RAT! Part 1:
DarkComet. Retrieved November 6, 2018.
14. TheWover. (2019, May 9). donut. Retrieved March 25, 2022.
15. US-CERT. (2018, March 16). Alert (TA18-074A): Russian
Government Cyber Activity Targeting Energy and Other Critical
Infrastructure Sectors. Retrieved June 6, 2018.
1. Schroeder, W., Warner, J., Nelson, M. (n.d.). Github
PowerShellEmpire. Retrieved April 28, 2016.
17. Bromiley, M. and Lewis, P. (2016, October 7). Attacking the
Hospitality and Gaming Industries: Tracking an Attacker
Around the World in 7 Years. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
1. FireEye Threat Intelligence. (2016, April). Follow the Money:
Dissecting the Operations of the Cyber Crime Group FIN6.
Retrieved June 1, 2016.
19. McKeague, B. et al. (2019, April 5). Pick-Six: Intercepting a
FIN6 Intrusion, an Actor Recently Tied to Ryuk and
LockerGoga Ransomware. Retrieved April 17, 2019.
20. Carr, N., et al. (2018, August 01). On the Hunt for FIN7:
Pursuing an Enigmatic and Evasive Global Criminal Operation.
Retrieved August 23, 2018.
21. Platt, J. and Reeves, J.. (2019, March). FIN7 Revisited: Inside
Astra Panel and SQLRat Malware. Retrieved June 18, 2019.
22. McLellan, T. and Moore, J. et al. (2021, April 29). UNC2447
SOMBRAT and FIVEHANDS Ransomware: A Sophisticated
Financial Threat. Retrieved June 2, 2021.
23. Matthews, M. and Backhouse, W. (2021, June 15). Handy
guide to a new Fivehands ransomware variant. Retrieved June
24, 2021.2. FireEye Threat Intelligence. (2015, July 13). Demonstrating
Hustle, Chinese APT Groups Quickly Use Zero-Day
Vulnerability (CVE-2015-5119) Following Hacking Team Leak.
Retrieved January 25, 2016.
27. Pantazopoulos, N. (2018, April 17). Decoding network data
from a Gh0st RAT variant. Retrieved November 2, 2018.
2. QiAnXin Threat Intelligence Center. (2019, February 18). APT-C-
36: Continuous Attacks Targeting Colombian Government
Institutions and Corporations. Retrieved May 5, 2020.
29. Villeneuve, N., Bennett, J. T., Moran, N., Haq, T., Scott, M., &
Geers, K. (2014). OPERATION “KE3CHANG”: Targeted Attacks
Against Ministries of Foreign Affairs. Retrieved November 12,
2014.
30. Smallridge, R. (2018, March 10). APT15 is alive and strong: An
analysis of RoyalCli and RoyalDNS. Retrieved April 4, 2018.
31. ClearSky Cyber Security and Trend Micro. (2017, July).
Operation Wilted Tulip: Exposing a cyber espionage
apparatus. Retrieved August 21, 2017.
32. GReAT. (2020, July 14). The Tetrade: Brazilian banking
malware goes global. Retrieved November 9, 2020.
33. Sardiwal, M, et al. (2017, December 7). New Targeted Attack in
the Middle East by APT34, a Suspected Iranian Threat Group,
Using CVE-2017-11882 Exploit. Retrieved December 20, 2017.
34. Falcone, R. and Lee, B. (2017, July 27). OilRig Uses ISMDoor
Variant; Possibly Linked to Greenbug Threat Group. Retrieved
January 8, 2018.
35. Lee, B., Falcone, R. (2018, February 23). OopsIE! OilRig Uses
ThreeDollars to Deliver New Trojan. Retrieved July 16, 2018.
3. Lee, B., Falcone, R. (2018, July 25). OilRig Targets Technology
Service Provider and Government Agency with QUADAGENT.
Retrieved August 9, 2018.
37. Falcone, R., Wilhoit, K.. (2018, November 16). Analyzing
OilRig’s Ops Tempo from Testing to Weaponization to
Delivery. Retrieved April 23, 2019.
3. M. Porolli. (2021, January 21). Operation Spalax: Targeted
malware attacks in Colombia. Retrieved September 16, 2022.
39. ANSSI. (2021, January 27). SANDWORM INTRUSION SET
CAMPAIGN TARGETING CENTREON SYSTEMS. Retrieved
March 30, 2021.
40. Mercer, W. Rascagneres, P. Ventura, V. (2020, October 6).
PoetRAT: Malware targeting public and private sector in
Azerbaijan evolves . Retrieved April 9, 2021.
41. Check Point Research. (2019, February 4). SpeakUp: A New
Undetected Backdoor Linux Trojan. Retrieved April 17, 2019.
42. Marczak, B. and Scott-Railton, J.. (2016, May 29). Keep Calm
and (Don’t) Enable Macros: A New Threat Actor Targets UAE
Dissidents. Retrieved June 8, 2016.
43. Symantec. (2019, March 6). Whiteﬂy: Espionage Group has
Singapore in Its Sights. Retrieved May 26, 2020.
44. FireEye. (2018, February 20). APT37 (Reaper): The Overlooked
North Korean Actor. Retrieved March 1, 2018.
45. Ebach, L. (2017, June 22). Analysis Results of
Zeus.Variant.Panda. Retrieved November 5, 2018.
4. Microsoft. (2021, July 2). Use attack surface reduction rules to
prevent malware infection. Retrieved June 24, 2021.
47. PowerShell Team. (2017, November 2). PowerShell
Constrained Language Mode. Retrieved March 27, 2023.
4. Sutherland, S. (2014, September 9). 15 Ways to Bypass the
PowerShell Execution Policy. Retrieved July 23, 2015.3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter, Technique T1059 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/ 8/824. ClearSky. (2020, December 17). Pay2Key Ransomware – A
New Campaign by Fox Kitten. Retrieved December 21, 2020.
25. Schwarz, D. et al. (2019, October 16). TA505 Distributes New
SDBbot Remote Access Trojan with Get2 Downloader.
Retrieved May 29, 2020.49. Microsoft. (2022, November 17). Just Enough Administration.
Retrieved March 27, 2023.
50. Hastings, M. (2014, July 16). Investigating PowerShell
Attacks. Retrieved December 1, 2021.