3/22/24, 3:43 PM Masquerading: Right-to-Left Override, Sub-technique T1036.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036/002/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:43 PM Masquerading: Right-to-Left Override, Sub-technique T1036.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036/002/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Masquerading>Right-to-Left Override3/22/24, 3:43 PM Masquerading: Right-to-Left Override, Sub-technique T1036.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036/002/ 3/4Masquerading: Right-to-Left Override
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0098 BlackTech BlackTech has used right-to-left-override to obfuscate the ﬁlenames of malicious e-mail attachments.
G0060 BRONZE
BUTLERBRONZE BUTLER has used Right-to-Left Override to deceive victims into executing several strains of
malware.
G0137 Ferocious
KittenFerocious Kitten has used right-to-left override to reverse executables’ names to make them appear to have
different ﬁle extensions, rather than their real ones.
G0004 Ke3chang Ke3chang has used the right-to-left override character in spearphishing attachment names to trick targets
into executing .scr and .exe ﬁles.
G0029 Scarlet Mimic Scarlet Mimic has used the left-to-right override character in self-extracting RAR archive spearphishing
attachment ﬁle names.
Mitigations
This type of attack technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on the abuse of system features.
Detection
ID Data SourceData ComponentDetects
DS0022 File File Metadata Monitor for common formats of RTLO characters within ﬁlenames such as \u202E, [U+202E],
and %E2%80%AE. Defenders should also check their analysis tools to ensure they do not
interpret the RTLO character and instead print the true name of the ﬁle containing it.Adversaries may abuse the right-to-left override (RTLO or RLO) character (U+202E) to disguise a string and/or ﬁle name to make it appear
benign. RTLO is a non-printing Unicode character that causes the text that follows it to be displayed in reverse. For example, a Windows
screensaver executable named March 25 \u202Excod.scr will display as March 25 rcs.docx . A JavaScript ﬁle named
photo\_high\_re\u202Egnp.js will be displayed as photo\_high\_resj.png .
Adversaries may abuse the RTLO character as a means of tricking a user into executing what they think is a benign ﬁle type. A common use
of this technique is with Spearphishing Attachment/Malicious File since it can trick both end users and defenders if they are not aware of
how their tools display and render the RTLO character. Use of the RTLO character has been seen in many targeted intrusion attempts and
criminal activity. RTLO can be used in the Windows Registry as well, where regedit.exe displays the reversed characters but the command
line tool reg.exe does not by default.Other sub-techniques of Masquerading (9)
[1]
[2][3]
Version PermalinkID: T1036.002
Sub-technique of:  T1036

Tactic: Defense Evasion

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS
Version: 1.1
Created: 10 February 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 14 October 2021
[4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]3/22/24, 3:43 PM Masquerading: Right-to-Left Override, Sub-technique T1036.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036/002/ 4/4References
1. Security Ninja. (2015, April 16). Spoof Using Right to Left
Override (RTLO) Technique. Retrieved April 22, 2019.
2. Alintanahin, K.. (2014, May 23). PLEAD Targeted Attacks
Against Taiwanese Government Agencies. Retrieved April 22,
2019.
3. Firsh, A.. (2018, February 13). Zero-day vulnerability in
Telegram - Cybercriminals exploited Telegram ﬂaw to launch
multipurpose attacks. Retrieved April 22, 2019.
4. Bermejo, L., et al. (2017, June 22). Following the Trail of
BlackTech’s Cyber Espionage Campaigns. Retrieved May 5,
2020.5. Chen, J. et al. (2019, November). Operation ENDTRADE: TICK’s
Multi-Stage Backdoors for Attacking Industries and Stealing
Classiﬁed Data. Retrieved June 9, 2020.
. GReAT. (2021, June 16). Ferocious Kitten: 6 Years of Covert
Surveillance in Iran. Retrieved September 22, 2021.
7. Villeneuve, N., Bennett, J. T., Moran, N., Haq, T., Scott, M., &
Geers, K. (2014). OPERATION “KE3CHANG”: Targeted Attacks
Against Ministries of Foreign Affairs. Retrieved November 12,
2014.
. Falcone, R. and Miller-Osborn, J.. (2016, January 24). Scarlet
Mimic: Years-Long Espionage Campaign Targets Minority
Activists. Retrieved February 10, 2016.