3/22/24, 3:32 PM Exﬁltration, Tactic TA0010 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0010/ 1/5Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Exﬁltration, Tactic TA0010 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0010/ 2/5Home>Tactics>Enterprise>Exﬁltration3/22/24, 3:32 PM Exﬁltration, Tactic TA0010 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0010/ 3/5E x ﬁ l t r a t i o n
T e c h n i q u e s
Techniques: 9The adversary is trying to steal data.
Exﬁltration consists of techniques that adversaries may use to steal data from your network. Once they’ve collected data, adversaries often
package it to avoid detection while removing it. This can include compression and encryption. Techniques for getting data out of a target
network typically include transferring it over their command and control channel or an alternate channel and may also include putting size
limits on the transmission.
Version PermalinkID: TA0010
Created: 17 October 2018
Last Modiﬁed: 19 July 20193/22/24, 3:32 PM Exﬁltration, Tactic TA0010 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0010/ 4/5ID Name Description
T1020 Automated
ExﬁltrationAdversaries may exﬁltrate data, such as sensitive documents, through the use of automated
processing after being gathered during Collection.
.001 Traﬃc
DuplicationAdversaries may leverage traﬃc mirroring in order to automate data exﬁltration over compromised
infrastructure. Traﬃc mirroring is a native feature for some devices, often used for network analysis.
For example, devices may be conﬁgured to forward network traﬃc to one or more destinations for
analysis by a network analyzer or other monitoring device.
T1030 Data Transfer
Size LimitsAn adversary may exﬁltrate data in ﬁxed size chunks instead of whole ﬁles or limit packet sizes below
certain thresholds. This approach may be used to avoid triggering network data transfer threshold
alerts.
T1048 Exﬁltration Over
Alternative
ProtocolAdversaries may steal data by exﬁltrating it over a different protocol than that of the existing command
and control channel. The data may also be sent to an alternate network location from the main
command and control server.
.001 Exﬁltration Over
Symmetric
Encrypted Non-
C2 ProtocolAdversaries may steal data by exﬁltrating it over a symmetrically encrypted network protocol other than
that of the existing command and control channel. The data may also be sent to an alternate network
location from the main command and control server.
.002 Exﬁltration Over
Asymmetric
Encrypted Non-
C2 ProtocolAdversaries may steal data by exﬁltrating it over an asymmetrically encrypted network protocol other
than that of the existing command and control channel. The data may also be sent to an alternate
network location from the main command and control server.
.003 Exﬁltration Over
Unencrypted
Non-C2 ProtocolAdversaries may steal data by exﬁltrating it over an un-encrypted network protocol other than that of
the existing command and control channel. The data may also be sent to an alternate network location
from the main command and control server.
T1041 Exﬁltration Over
C2 ChannelAdversaries may steal data by exﬁltrating it over an existing command and control channel. Stolen
data is encoded into the normal communications channel using the same protocol as command and
control communications.
T1011 Exﬁltration Over
Other Network
MediumAdversaries may attempt to exﬁltrate data over a different network medium than the command and
control channel. If the command and control network is a wired Internet connection, the exﬁltration
may occur, for example, over a WiFi connection, modem, cellular data connection, Bluetooth, or another
radio frequency (RF) channel.
.001 Exﬁltration Over
BluetoothAdversaries may attempt to exﬁltrate data over Bluetooth rather than the command and control
channel. If the command and control network is a wired Internet connection, an adversary may opt to
exﬁltrate data using a Bluetooth communication channel.
T1052 Exﬁltration Over
Physical MediumAdversaries may attempt to exﬁltrate data via a physical medium, such as a removable drive. In certain
circumstances, such as an air-gapped network compromise, exﬁltration could occur via a physical
medium or device introduced by a user. Such media could be an external hard drive, USB drive, cellular
phone, MP3 player, or other removable storage and processing device. The physical medium or device
could be used as the ﬁnal exﬁltration point or to hop between otherwise disconnected systems.
.001 Exﬁltration over
USBAdversaries may attempt to exﬁltrate data over a USB connected physical device. In certain
circumstances, such as an air-gapped network compromise, exﬁltration could occur via a USB device
introduced by a user. The USB device could be used as the ﬁnal exﬁltration point or to hop between
otherwise disconnected systems.
T1567 Exﬁltration Over
Web ServiceAdversaries may use an existing, legitimate external Web service to exﬁltrate data rather than their
primary command and control channel. Popular Web services acting as an exﬁltration mechanism may
give a signiﬁcant amount of cover due to the likelihood that hosts within a network are already
communicating with them prior to compromise. Firewall rules may also already exist to permit traﬃc to
these services.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Exﬁltration, Tactic TA0010 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0010/ 5/5ID Name Description
.001 Exﬁltration to
Code RepositoryAdversaries may exﬁltrate data to a code repository rather than over their primary command and
control channel. Code repositories are often accessible via an API (ex: https://api.github.com). Access
to these APIs are often over HTTPS, which gives the adversary an additional level of protection.
.002 Exﬁltration to
Cloud StorageAdversaries may exﬁltrate data to a cloud storage service rather than over their primary command and
control channel. Cloud storage services allow for the storage, edit, and retrieval of data from a remote
cloud storage server over the Internet.
.003 Exﬁltration to
Text Storage
SitesAdversaries may exﬁltrate data to text storage sites instead of their primary command and control
channel. Text storage sites, such as pastebin[.]com , are commonly used by developers to share code
and other information.
.004 Exﬁltration Over
WebhookAdversaries may exﬁltrate data to a webhook endpoint rather than over their primary command and
control channel. Webhooks are simple mechanisms for allowing a server to push data over HTTP/S to
a client without the need for the client to continuously poll the server. Many public and commercial
services, such as Discord, Slack, and webhook.site , support the creation of webhook endpoints that
can be used by other services, such as Github, Jira, or Trello. When changes happen in the linked
services (such as pushing a repository update or modifying a ticket), these services will automatically
post the data to the webhook endpoint for use by the consuming application.
T1029 Scheduled
TransferAdversaries may schedule data exﬁltration to be performed only at certain times of day or at certain
intervals. This could be done to blend traﬃc patterns with normal activity or availability.
T1537 Transfer Data to
Cloud AccountAdversaries may exﬁltrate data by transferring the data, including backups of cloud environments, to
another cloud account they control on the same service to avoid typical ﬁle transfers/downloads and
network-based exﬁltration detection.