3/22/24, 3:40 PM Hijack Execution Flow: Dylib Hijacking, Sub-technique T1574.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1574/004/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:40 PM Hijack Execution Flow: Dylib Hijacking, Sub-technique T1574.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1574/004/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Hijack Execution Flow>Dylib Hijacking3/22/24, 3:40 PM Hijack Execution Flow: Dylib Hijacking, Sub-technique T1574.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1574/004/ 3/4Hijack Execution Flow: Dylib Hijacking
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0363 Empire Empire has a dylib hijacker module that generates a malicious dylib given the path to a legitimate dylib of a
vulnerable application.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1022 Restrict File and Directory
PermissionsSet directory access controls to prevent ﬁle writes to the search paths for applications, both in
the folders where applications are run from and the standard dylib folders.Adversaries may execute their own payloads by placing a malicious dynamic library (dylib) with an expected name in a path a victim
application searches at runtime. The dynamic loader will try to ﬁnd the dylibs based on the sequential order of the search paths. Paths to
dylibs may be preﬁxed with @rpath , which allows developers to use relative paths to specify an array of search paths used at runtime based
on the location of the executable. Additionally, if weak linking is used, such as the LC\_LOAD\_WEAK\_DYLIB function, an application will still
execute even if an expected dylib is not present. Weak linking enables developers to run an application on multiple macOS versions as new
APIs are added.
Adversaries may gain execution by inserting malicious dylibs with the name of the missing dylib in the identiﬁed path. Dylibs are
loaded into an application's address space allowing the malicious dylib to inherit the application's privilege level and resources. Based on the
application, this could result in privilege escalation and uninhibited network access. This method may also evade detection from security
products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process.Other sub-techniques of Hijack Execution Flow (12)
[1][2][3][4]
[5][6][7]
Version PermalinkID: T1574.004
Sub-technique of:  T1574

Tactics: Persistence, Privilege Escalation, Defense Evasion

Platforms: macOS

Defense Bypassed: Application Control
Version: 2.0
Created: 16 March 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 30 March 2023
[8]3/22/24, 3:40 PM Hijack Execution Flow: Dylib Hijacking, Sub-technique T1574.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1574/004/ 4/4Detection
ID Data SourceData ComponentDetects
DS0022 File File Creation Monitor for newly constructed dylibs
File
ModiﬁcationMonitor ﬁle systems for moving, renaming, replacing, or modifying dylibs. Changes in the set
of dylibs that are loaded by a process (compared to past behavior) that do not correlate with
known software, patches, etc., are suspicious. Check the system for multiple dylibs with the
same name and monitor which versions have historically been loaded into a process.
DS0011 Module Module Load Monitor for dynamic libraries being loaded. Run path dependent libraries can include
LC\_LOAD\_DYLIB, LC\_LOAD\_WEAK\_DYLIB, and LC\_RPATH. Other special keywords are
recognized by the macOS loader are @rpath, @loader\_path, and @executable\_path. These
loader instructions can be examined for individual binaries or frameworks using the otool -l
command. Objective-See's Dylib Hijacking Scanner can be used to identify applications
vulnerable to dylib hijacking
References[9]
1. Patrick Wardle. (2019, July 2). Getting Root with Benign
AppStore Apps. Retrieved March 31, 2021.
2. Patrick Wardle. (2015, March 1). Dylib Hijacking on OS X.
Retrieved March 29, 2021.
3. Wardle, P., Ross, C. (2017, September 21). Empire Project Dylib
Hijack Vulnerability Scanner. Retrieved April 1, 2021.
4. Wardle, P., Ross, C. (2018, April 8). EmpireProject Create Dylib
Hijacker. Retrieved April 1, 2021.
5. Patrick Wardle. (2015). Writing Bad @$$ Malware for OS X.
Retrieved July 10, 2017.. Patrick Wardle. (2020, August 5). The Art of Mac Malware
Volume 0x1: Analysis. Retrieved March 19, 2021.
7. Amanda Rousseau. (2020, April 4). MacOS Dylib Injection
Workshop. Retrieved March 29, 2021.
. Schroeder, W., Warner, J., Nelson, M. (n.d.). Github
PowerShellEmpire. Retrieved April 28, 2016.
9. Apple Inc.. (2012, July 7). Run-Path Dependent Libraries.
Retrieved March 31, 2021.