3/22/24, 3:42 PM File and Directory Permissions Modiﬁcation: Linux and Mac File and Directory Permissions Modiﬁcation, Sub-technique T1222.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1222/002/ 1/6Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:42 PM File and Directory Permissions Modiﬁcation: Linux and Mac File and Directory Permissions Modiﬁcation, Sub-technique T1222.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1222/002/ 2/6Home>Techniques>Enterprise>File and Directory Permissions Modiﬁcation>Linux and Mac File and Directory Permissions Modiﬁcation3/22/24, 3:42 PM File and Directory Permissions Modiﬁcation: Linux and Mac File and Directory Permissions Modiﬁcation, Sub-technique T1222.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1222/002/ 3/6File and Directory Permissions Modiﬁcation: Linux and
Mac File and Directory Permissions Modiﬁcation
Adversaries may modify ﬁle or directory permissions/attributes to evade access control lists (ACLs) and access protected ﬁles. File and
directory permissions are commonly managed by ACLs conﬁgured by the ﬁle or directory owner, or users with the appropriate permissions.
File and directory ACL implementations vary by platform, but generally explicitly designate which users or groups can perform which actions
(read, write, execute, etc.).
Most Linux and Linux-based platforms provide a standard set of permission groups (user, group, and other) and a standard set of
permissions (read, write, and execute) that are applied to each group. While nuances of each platform’s permissions implementation may
vary, most of the platforms provide two primary commands used to manipulate ﬁle and directory ACLs: chown (short for change owner), and
chmod (short for change mode).
Adversarial may use these commands to make themselves the owner of ﬁles and directories or change the mode if current permissions
allow it. They could subsequently lock others out of the ﬁle. Speciﬁc ﬁle and directory modiﬁcations may be a required step for many
techniques, such as establishing Persistence via Unix Shell Conﬁguration Modiﬁcation or tainting/hijacking other instrumental
binary/conﬁguration ﬁles via Hijack Execution Flow.Other sub-techniques of File and Directory Permissions Modiﬁcation (2)
[1][2]
[3]
Version PermalinkID: T1222.002
Sub-technique of:  T1222

Tactic: Defense Evasion

Platforms: Linux, macOS
Version: 1.2
Created: 04 February 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 14 August 20233/22/24, 3:42 PM File and Directory Permissions Modiﬁcation: Linux and Mac File and Directory Permissions Modiﬁcation, Sub-technique T1222.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1222/002/ 4/6Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0050 APT32 APT32's macOS backdoor changes the permission of the ﬁle it wants to execute to 755.
S1070 Black Basta The Black Basta binary can use chmod to gain full permissions to targeted ﬁles.
S0482 Bundlore Bundlore changes the permissions of a payload using the command chmod -R 755 .
S0281 Dok Dok gives all users execute permissions for the application using the command chmod +x
/Users/Shared/AppStore.app .
S0599 Kinsing Kinsing has used chmod to modify permissions on key ﬁles for use.
S0402 OSX/Shlayer OSX/Shlayer can use the chmod utility to set a ﬁle as executable, such as chmod 777 or chmod +x .
S0352 OSX\_OCEANLOTUS.D OSX\_OCEANLOTUS.D has changed permissions of a second-stage payload to an executable via
chmod .
S0598 P.A.S. Webshell P.A.S. Webshell has the ability to modify ﬁle permissions.
S0587 Penquin Penquin can add the executable ﬂag to a downloaded ﬁle.
G0106 Rocke Rocke has changed ﬁle permissions of ﬁles so they could not be modiﬁed.
G0139 TeamTNT TeamTNT has modiﬁed the permissions on binaries with chattr .
S0658 XCSSET XCSSET uses the chmod +x command to grant executable permissions to the malicious ﬁle.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1026 Privileged Account
ManagementEnsure critical system ﬁles as well as those known to be abused by adversaries have restrictive
permissions and are owned by an appropriately privileged account, especially if access is not
required by users nor will inhibit system functionality.
M1022 Restrict File and
Directory PermissionsApplying more restrictive permissions to ﬁles and directories could prevent adversaries from
modifying the access control lists.[4]
[5]
[3]
[6]
[7]
[3][8][9]
[10]
[11]
[12]
[13]
[14][15]
[3]3/22/24, 3:42 PM File and Directory Permissions Modiﬁcation: Linux and Mac File and Directory Permissions Modiﬁcation, Sub-technique T1222.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1222/002/ 5/6Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMany of the commands used to modify ACLs and ﬁle/directory ownership are built-in system
utilities and may generate a high false positive alert rate, so compare against baseline
knowledge for how systems are typically used and correlate modiﬁcation events with other
indications of malicious activity where possible. Commonly abused command arguments
include chmod +x , chmod -R 755 , and chmod 777 .
DS0022 File File Metadata Monitor and investigate attempts to modify ACLs and ﬁle/directory ownership. Consider
enabling ﬁle/directory permission change auditing on folders containing key
binary/conﬁguration ﬁles.
Adversaries sometimes modify object access rights at the operating system level. There are
varying motivations behind this action - they may not want some ﬁles/objects to be changed
on systems for persistence reasons and therefore provide admin only rights; also, they may
want ﬁles to be accessible with lower levels of permissions.
Windows environment logs can be noisy, so we take the following into consideration:
We need to exclude events generated by the local system (subject security ID "NT
AUTHORITY\SYSTEM") and focus on actual user events.
When a permission modiﬁcation is made for a folder, a new event log is generated for
each subfolder and ﬁle under that folder. It is advised to group logs based on handle ID
or user ID.
The Windows security log (event ID 4670) also includes information about the process
that modiﬁes the ﬁle permissions. It is advised to focus on uncommon process names,
and it is also uncommon for real-users to perform this task without a GUI.
Pseudocode Event ID is for Windows Security Log (Event ID 4670 - Permissions on an
object were changed).
Windows Event ID 4719 (An Attempt Was Made to Access An Object) can also be used
to alert on changes to Active Directory audit policy for a system.
Linux environment logs can be more noisy than the Windows-speciﬁc implementation,
although Linux does not generate logs for system triggered activities like in Windows. In
addition, it may be necessary to whitelist cron jobs that regularly run and execute chmod.
Analytic 1 : Access Permission Modiﬁcation for Windows
file\_dacl\_events = filter log\_events where (event\_id == "4670" ANDobject\_type
== "File" ANDsubject\_security\_id != "NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM")
Analytic 2 - Access Permission Modiﬁcation for Linux
chmod\_processes = filter processes where command\_line == "chmod \*"
DS0009 Process Process
CreationMonitor for newly executed processes that may modify ﬁle or directory permissions/attributes
to evade access control lists (ACLs) and access protected ﬁles.[3]
[1][2]3/22/24, 3:42 PM File and Directory Permissions Modiﬁcation: Linux and Mac File and Directory Permissions Modiﬁcation, Sub-technique T1222.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1222/002/ 6/6References
1. Hybrid Analysis. (2018, June 12).
c9b65b764985dfd7a11d3faf599c56b8.exe. Retrieved August
19, 2018.
2. Hybrid Analysis. (2018, May 30).
2a8efbfadd798f6111340f7c1c956bee.dll. Retrieved August
19, 2018.
3. Phil Stokes. (2021, February 16). 20 Common Tools &
Techniques Used by macOS Threat Actors & Malware.
Retrieved August 23, 2021.
4. Dumont, R.. (2019, April 9). OceanLotus: macOS malware
update. Retrieved April 15, 2019.
5. Sharma, S. and Hegde, N. (2022, June 7). Black basta
Ransomware Goes Cross-Platform, Now Targets ESXi
Systems. Retrieved March 8, 2023.
. Ofer Caspi. (2017, May 4). OSX Malware is Catching Up, and it
wants to Read Your HTTPS Traﬃc. Retrieved October 5, 2021.
7. Singer, G. (2020, April 3). Threat Alert: Kinsing Malware
Attacks Targeting Container Environments. Retrieved April 1,
2021.
. Carbon Black Threat Analysis Unit. (2019, February 12). New
macOS Malware Variant of Shlayer (OSX) Discovered.
Retrieved August 8, 2019.9. Jaron Bradley. (2021, April 26). Shlayer malware abusing
Gatekeeper bypass on macOS. Retrieved September 22, 2021.
10. Phil Stokes. (2020, December 2). APT32 Multi-stage macOS
Trojan Innovates on Crimeware Scripting Technique. Retrieved
September 13, 2021.
11. ANSSI. (2021, January 27). SANDWORM INTRUSION SET
CAMPAIGN TARGETING CENTREON SYSTEMS. Retrieved
March 30, 2021.
12. Leonardo. (2020, May 29). MALWARE TECHNICAL INSIGHT
TURLA “Penquin\_x64”. Retrieved March 11, 2021.
13. Anomali Labs. (2019, March 15). Rocke Evolves Its Arsenal
With a New Malware Family Written in Golang. Retrieved April
24, 2019.
14. Fiser, D. Oliveira, A. (n.d.). Tracking the Activities of TeamTNT
A Closer Look at a Cloud-Focused Malicious Actor Group.
Retrieved September 22, 2021.
15. Darin Smith. (2022, April 21). TeamTNT targeting AWS,
Alibaba. Retrieved August 4, 2022.