3/22/24, 3:34 PM Search Open Technical Databases: WHOIS, Sub-technique T1596.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1596/002/ 1/1Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.
Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Search Open Technical Databases>WHOIS
Search Open Technical Databases: WHOIS
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1056 Pre-
compromiseThis technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on behaviors performed
outside of the scope of enterprise defenses and controls. Efforts should focus on minimizing the amount
and sensitivity of data available to external parties.
Detection
Much of this activity may have a very high occurrence and associated false positive rate, as well as potentially taking place outside the
visibility of the target organization, making detection diﬃcult for defenders.
Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Initial Access.
ReferencesAdversaries may search public WHOIS data for information about victims that can be used during targeting. WHOIS data is stored by
regional Internet registries (RIR) responsible for allocating and assigning Internet resources such as domain names. Anyone can query
WHOIS servers for information about a registered domain, such as assigned IP blocks, contact information, and DNS nameservers.
Adversaries may search WHOIS data to gather actionable information. Threat actors can use online resources or command-line utilities to
pillage through WHOIS data for information about potential victims. Information from these sources may reveal opportunities for other
forms of reconnaissance (ex: Active Scanning or Phishing for Information), establishing operational resources (ex: Acquire Infrastructure or
Compromise Infrastructure), and/or initial access (ex: External Remote Services or Trusted Relationship).Other sub-techniques of Search Open Technical Databases (5)
[1]
Version PermalinkID: T1596.002
Sub-technique of:  T1596

Tactic: Reconnaissance

Platforms: PRE
Version: 1.0
Created: 02 October 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 15 April 2021
1. NTT America. (n.d.). Whois Lookup. Retrieved October 20,
2020.