3/22/24, 3:48 PM Account Discovery: Cloud Account, Sub-technique T1087.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1087/004/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:48 PM Account Discovery: Cloud Account, Sub-technique T1087.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1087/004/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Account Discovery>Cloud Account3/22/24, 3:48 PM Account Discovery: Cloud Account, Sub-technique T1087.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1087/004/ 3/4Account Discovery: Cloud Account
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0677 AADInternals AADInternals can enumerate Azure AD users.
G0016 APT29 APT29 has conducted enumeration of Azure AD accounts.
C0027 C0027 During C0027, Scattered Spider accessed Azure AD to download bulk lists of group members and to identify
privileged users, along with the email addresses and AD attributes.
S1091 Pacu Pacu can enumerate IAM users, roles, and groups. 
S0684 ROADTools ROADTools can enumerate Azure AD users.Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of cloud accounts. Cloud accounts are those created and conﬁgured by an organization for use by
users, remote support, services, or for administration of resources within a cloud service provider or SaaS application.
With authenticated access there are several tools that can be used to ﬁnd accounts. The Get-MsolRoleMember PowerShell cmdlet can be
used to obtain account names given a role or permissions group in Oﬃce 365. The Azure CLI (AZ CLI) also provides an interface to
obtain user accounts with authenticated access to a domain. The command az ad user list will list all users within a domain.
The AWS command aws iam list-users may be used to obtain a list of users in the current account while aws iam list-roles can
obtain IAM roles that have a speciﬁed path preﬁx. In GCP, gcloud iam service-accounts list and gcloud projects get-iam-
policy may be used to obtain a listing of service accounts and users in a project.Other sub-techniques of Account Discovery (4)
[1][2]
[3][4]
[5][6]
[7]
Version PermalinkID: T1087.004
Sub-technique of:  T1087

Tactic: Discovery

Platforms: Azure AD, Google Workspace, IaaS, Oﬃce 365, SaaS

Permissions Required: User
Contributors: Praetorian
Version: 1.2
Created: 21 February 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 16 March 2021
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]
[12]3/22/24, 3:48 PM Account Discovery: Cloud Account, Sub-technique T1087.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1087/004/ 4/4Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1047 Audit Routinely check user permissions to ensure only the expected users have the ability to list IAM identities
or otherwise discover cloud accounts.
M1018 User Account
ManagementLimit permissions to discover cloud accounts in accordance with least privilege. Organizations should
limit the number of users within the organization with an IAM role that has administrative privileges,
strive to reduce all permanent privileged role assignments, and conduct periodic entitlement reviews on
IAM users, roles and policies.
Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor logs for actions that could be taken to gather information about cloud accounts,
including the use of calls to cloud APIs that perform account discovery.
System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an
adversary learns the environment, and also to an extent in normal network operations.
Therefore discovery data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain
of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the
information obtained.
References
1. Microsoft. (n.d.). Get-MsolRoleMember. Retrieved October 6,
2019.
2. Stringer, M.. (2018, November 21). RainDance. Retrieved
October 6, 2019.
3. Microsoft. (n.d.). az ad user. Retrieved October 6, 2019.
4. Felch, M.. (2018, August 31). Red Teaming Microsoft Part 1
Active Directory Leaks via Azure. Retrieved October 6, 2019.
5. Amazon. (n.d.). List Roles. Retrieved August 11, 2020.
. Amazon. (n.d.). List Users. Retrieved August 11, 2020.7. Google. (2020, June 23). gcloud iam service-accounts list.
Retrieved August 4, 2020.
. Dr. Nestori Syynimaa. (2018, October 25). AADInternals.
Retrieved February 18, 2022.
9. Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center. (2021, October 25).
NOBELIUM targeting delegated administrative privileges to
facilitate broader attacks. Retrieved March 25, 2022.
10. Parisi, T. (2022, December 2). Not a SIMulation: CrowdStrike
Investigations Reveal Intrusion Campaign Targeting Telco and
BPO Companies. Retrieved June 30, 2023.
11. Rhino Security Labs. (2019, August 22). Pacu. Retrieved
October 17, 2019.
12. Dirk-jan Mollema. (2020, April 16). Introducing ROADtools -
The Azure AD exploration framework. Retrieved January 31,
2022.