3/22/24, 3:42 PM Impair Defenses: Disable Windows Event Logging, Sub-technique T1562.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1562/002/ 1/7Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:42 PM Impair Defenses: Disable Windows Event Logging, Sub-technique T1562.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1562/002/ 2/7Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Impair Defenses>Disable Windows Event Logging3/22/24, 3:42 PM Impair Defenses: Disable Windows Event Logging, Sub-technique T1562.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1562/002/ 3/7Impair Defenses: Disable Windows Event Logging
Adversaries may disable Windows event logging to limit data that can be leveraged for detections and audits. Windows event logs record user
and system activity such as login attempts, process creation, and much more. This data is used by security tools and analysts to generate
detections.
The EventLog service maintains event logs from various system components and applications. By default, the service automatically starts
when a system powers on. An audit policy, maintained by the Local Security Policy (secpol.msc), deﬁnes which system events the EventLog
service logs. Security audit policy settings can be changed by running secpol.msc, then navigating to Security Settings\Local
Policies\Audit Policy for basic audit policy settings or Security Settings\Advanced Audit Policy Configuration for advanced audit
policy settings. auditpol.exe may also be used to set audit policies.
Adversaries may target system-wide logging or just that of a particular application. For example, the Windows EventLog service may be
disabled using the Set-Service -Name EventLog -Status Stopped or sc config eventlog start=disabled commands (followed by
manually stopping the service using Stop-Service -Name EventLog ). Additionally, the service may be disabled by modifying the "Start"
value in HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\EventLog then restarting the system for the change to take effect.
There are several ways to disable the EventLog service via registry key modiﬁcation. First, without Administrator privileges, adversaries may
modify the "Start" value in the key HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\WMI\Autologger\EventLog-Security , then
reboot the system to disable the Security EventLog. Second, with Administrator privilege, adversaries may modify the same values in
HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\WMI\Autologger\EventLog-System and
HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\WMI\Autologger\EventLog-Application to disable the entire EventLog.
Additionally, adversaries may use auditpol and its sub-commands in a command prompt to disable auditing or clear the audit policy. To
enable or disable a speciﬁed setting or audit category, adversaries may use the /success or /failure parameters. For example, auditpol
/set /category:"Account Logon" /success:disable /failure:disable turns off auditing for the Account Logon category. To clear
the audit policy, adversaries may run the following lines: auditpol /clear /y or auditpol /remove /allusers .
By disabling Windows event logging, adversaries can operate while leaving less evidence of a compromise behind.Other sub-techniques of Impair Defenses (11)
[1]
[2]
[3][4] [5]
[6][7]
[7]
[8]
[7]
[9][10]
[10]
Version PermalinkID: T1562.002
Sub-technique of:  T1562

Tactic: Defense Evasion

Platforms: Windows

Defense Bypassed: Log analysis
Contributors: Lucas Heiligenstein; Prasanth Sadanala, Cigna Information Protection (CIP) - Threat Response Engineering Team
Version: 1.3
Created: 21 February 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 18 September 20233/22/24, 3:42 PM Impair Defenses: Disable Windows Event Logging, Sub-technique T1562.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1562/002/ 4/7Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
C0025 2016 Ukraine Electric Power
AttackDuring the 2016 Ukraine Electric Power Attack, Sandworm Team disabled event logging on
compromised systems.
G0059 Magic Hound Magic Hound has executed scripts to disable the event log service.
C0024 SolarWinds Compromise During the SolarWinds Compromise, APT29, used AUDITPOL to prevent the collection of audit
logs.
G0027 Threat Group-3390 Threat Group-3390 has used appcmd.exe to disable logging on a victim server.
S0645 Wevtutil Wevtutil can be used to disable speciﬁc event logs on the system.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1047 Audit Consider periodic review of auditpol settings for Administrator accounts and perform dynamic
baselining on SIEM(s) to investigate potential malicious activity. Also ensure that the EventLog service
and its threads are properly running.
M1022 Restrict File and
Directory
PermissionsEnsure proper process and ﬁle permissions are in place to prevent adversaries from disabling or
interfering with logging or deleting or modifying .evtx logging ﬁles. Ensure .evtx ﬁles, which are located at
C:\Windows\system32\Winevt\Logs , have the proper ﬁle permissions for limited, legitimate access
and audit policies for detection.
M1024 Restrict Registry
PermissionsEnsure proper Registry permissions are in place to prevent adversaries from disabling or interfering
logging. The addition of the MiniNT registry key disables Event Viewer.
M1018 User Account
ManagementEnsure proper user permissions are in place to prevent adversaries from disabling or interfering with
logging.[11]
[12]
[13]
[14]
[15]
[16]
[17]3/22/24, 3:42 PM Impair Defenses: Disable Windows Event Logging, Sub-technique T1562.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1562/002/ 5/7Detection
ID Data Source Data ComponentDetects
DS0015 Application Log Application
Log ContentMonitor for third-party application logging, messaging, and/or other artifacts provided by third-
party services that may disable Windows event logging to limit data that can be leveraged for
detections and audits.
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments for commands that can be used to disable
logging. For example, Wevtutil, auditpol, sc stop EventLog , reg add , Set- or Stop-
Service , Set- or New-ItemProperty , sc config , and offensive tooling (such as Mimikatz
and Invoke-Phant0m) may be used to clear logs and/or change the EventLog/audit policy.
DS0009 Process Process
CreationMonitor newly executed processes that may disable Windows event logging to limit data that
can be leveraged for detections and audits.
Analytic 1 - Disable Windows Event Logging
susp\_processes = filter processes where ((command\_line CONTAINS(" New-Item ") OR
command\_line CONTAINS(" reg add")) OR command\_line CONTAINS(" MiniNt")) OR
(command\_line CONTAINS(" Stop-Service ")AND command\_line CONTAINS(" EventLog ")) OR
(command\_line CONTAINS(" EventLog ") AND (command\_line CONTAINS(" Set-Service ") OR
command\_line CONTAINS(" reg add") OR command\_line CONTAINS(" Set-ItemProperty ")
OR command\_line CONTAINS(" New-ItemProperty ") OR command\_line CONTAINS(" sc
config"))) OR (command\_line CONTAINS(" auditpol ") AND (command\_line
CONTAINS(" /set") OR command\_line CONTAINS(" /clear") OR command\_line
CONTAINS(" /revove"))) OR ((command\_line CONTAINS(" wevtutil ") AND (command\_line
CONTAINS(" sl") OR command\_line CONTAINS(" set-log"))))
DS0012 Script Script
ExecutionMonitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system would be considered
suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of
cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be
captured from the ﬁle system when possible to determine their actions and intent.
DS0013 Sensor Health Host Status Monitor for logging, messaging that may disable Windows event logging to limit data that can
be leveraged for detections and audits. For example, adversaries may modify the EventLog ﬁle
path to a different ﬁle name and location.
DS0024 Windows RegistryWindows
Registry Key
CreationMonitor the addition of the MiniNT registry key in
HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control, which may disable Event Viewer.[17]
[18][7]
[7]
[17][7]3/22/24, 3:42 PM Impair Defenses: Disable Windows Event Logging, Sub-technique T1562.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1562/002/ 6/7ID Data Source Data ComponentDetects
Windows
Registry Key
ModiﬁcationMonitor the addition of the MiniNT registry key in
HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control, which may disable Event Viewer.
Adversaries may disable Windows event logging to limit data that can be leveraged for
detections and audits. There are different ways to perform this attack.1. The ﬁrst one is to
create the Registry Key HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\MiniNt.
This action will not generate Security EventLog 4657 or Sysmon EventLog 13 because the
value of the key remains empty. However, if an attacker uses powershell to perform this attack
(and not cmd), a Security EventLog 4663 will be generated (but 4663 generates a lot of
noise).2. The second way is to disable the service EventLog (display name Windows Event
Log). After disabed, attacker must reboot the system. The action of disabling or put in manual
the service will modify the Registry Key
value HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\EventLog\start, therefore
Security EventLog 4657 or Sysmon EventLog 13 will be generated on the system.3. The third
way is linked with the second. By default, the EventLog service cannot be stopped. If an
attacker tries to stop the service, this one will restart immediately. Why ? Because to stop
completely, this service must stop others, one in particular called netprofm (display name
Network List Service). This service remains running until it is disabled. So Attacker must either
disable EventLog and after to stop it or disable netprofm and after stop EventLog. Only
stopping the service (even as admin) will not have an effect on the EventLog service because
of the link with netprofm. Security EventLog 1100 will log the stop of the EventLog service (but
also generates a lot of noise because it will generate a log everytime the system shutdown).4.
The fourth way is to use auditpol.exe to modify the audit conﬁguration and disable/modify
important parameters that will lead to disable the creation of EventLog.5. The last one is to
modify the Registry Key
value HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\EventLog\Security\ﬁle (or
other kind of log) to modify the path where the EventLog are stocked. Importantly, with this
technique, the EventViewer will use the value of the Registry Key "ﬁle" to know where to ﬁnd the
Log. Thus, using the EventViewer will always show the current event logs, but the old one will
be stocked in another evtx. Also, the path must be in a folder that the Eventlog process has
access (like it doesn’t work if attacker set up the new path in the Desktop). Attacker can also
decrease the maxsize value of the Log to force the system to rewrite on the older EventLog (but
the minimum cannot be less than 1028 KB). As the Registry key is modiﬁed, Security EventLog
4657 or Sysmon EventLog 13 will be generated on the system. All of these attacks required
administrative right. Attacks number three, four and ﬁve do not require a system reboot to be
effective immediately.
Analytic 1 - Disable Windows Event Logging
event\_log\_reg\_keys = filter reg\_keys where Key=" EventLog " AND (value="Start" OR
value="File" OR value="MaxSize")[17]3/22/24, 3:42 PM Impair Defenses: Disable Windows Event Logging, Sub-technique T1562.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1562/002/ 7/7References
1. Franklin Smith. (n.d.). Windows Security Log Events. Retrieved
February 21, 2020.
2. Core Technologies. (2021, May 24). Essential Windows
Services: EventLog / Windows Event Log. Retrieved September
14, 2021.
3. Daniel Simpson. (2017, April 19). Audit Policy. Retrieved
September 13, 2021.
4. Simpson, D. et al. (2017, April 19). Advanced security audit
policy settings. Retrieved September 14, 2021.
5. Jason Gerend, et al. (2017, October 16). auditpol. Retrieved
September 1, 2021.
. dmcxblue. (n.d.). Disable Windows Event Logging. Retrieved
September 10, 2021.
7. Heiligenstein, L. (n.d.). REP-25: Disable Windows Event
Logging. Retrieved April 7, 2022.
. Naceri, A. (2021, November 7). Windows Server 2019 ﬁle
overwrite bug. Retrieved April 7, 2022.
9. STRONTIC. (n.d.). auditpol.exe. Retrieved September 9, 2021.10. redcanaryco. (2021, September 3). T1562.002 - Disable
Windows Event Logging. Retrieved September 13, 2021.
11. Joe Slowik. (2018, October 12). Anatomy of an Attack:
Detecting and Defeating CRASHOVERRIDE. Retrieved December
18, 2020.
12. DFIR Report. (2021, November 15). Exchange Exploit Leads to
Domain Wide Ransomware. Retrieved January 5, 2023.
13. MSTIC, CDOC, 365 Defender Research Team. (2021, January
20). Deep dive into the Solorigate second-stage activation:
From SUNBURST to TEARDROP and Raindrop . Retrieved
January 22, 2021.
14. Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2017, June 27). BRONZE
UNION Cyberespionage Persists Despite Disclosures. Retrieved
July 13, 2017.
15. Microsoft. (n.d.). wevtutil. Retrieved September 14, 2021.
1. Forensics Wiki. (2021, June 19). Windows XML Event Log
(EVTX). Retrieved September 13, 2021.
17. Chandel, R. (2021, April 22). Defense Evasion: Windows Event
Logging (T1562.002). Retrieved September 14, 2021.
1. svch0st. (2020, September 30). Event Log Tampering Part 1:
Disrupting the EventLog Service. Retrieved September 14, 2021.