3/22/24, 3:51 PM Dynamic Resolution, Technique T1568 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1568/ 1/6Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:51 PM Dynamic Resolution, Technique T1568 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1568/ 2/6Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Dynamic Resolution3/22/24, 3:51 PM Dynamic Resolution, Technique T1568 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1568/ 3/6Dynamic Resolution
Adversaries may dynamically establish connections to command and control infrastructure to evade common detections and remediations.
This may be achieved by using malware that shares a common algorithm with the infrastructure the adversary uses to receive the malware's
communications. These calculations can be used to dynamically adjust parameters such as the domain name, IP address, or port number
the malware uses for command and control.
Adversaries may use dynamic resolution for the purpose of Fallback Channels. When contact is lost with the primary command and control
server malware may employ dynamic resolution as a means to reestablishing command and control.Sub-techniques (3)
[1][2][3]
Version PermalinkID: T1568
Sub-techniques:  T1568.001, T1568.002, T1568.003

Tactic: Command and Control

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS

Permissions Required: User
Contributors: Chris Roffe
Version: 1.0
Created: 10 March 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 11 March 20223/22/24, 3:51 PM Dynamic Resolution, Technique T1568 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1568/ 4/6Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0016 APT29 APT29 has used Dynamic DNS providers for their malware C2 infrastructure.
S1087 AsyncRAT AsyncRAT can be conﬁgured to use dynamic DNS.
S0268 Bisonal Bisonal has used a dynamic DNS service for C2.
G1002 BITTER BITTER has used DDNS for C2 communications.
C0026 C0026 During C0026, the threat actors re-registered a ClouDNS dynamic DNS subdomain which was previously
used by ANDROMEDA.
G0047 Gamaredon Group Gamaredon Group has incorporated dynamic DNS domains in its infrastructure.
S0666 Gelsemium Gelsemium can use dynamic DNS domain names in C2.
S0449 Maze Maze has forged POST strings with a random choice from a list of possibilities including "forum", "php",
"view", etc. while making connection with the C2, hindering detection efforts.
S0034 NETEAGLE NETEAGLE can use HTTP to download resources that contain an IP address and port number pair to
connect to for C2.
C0002 Night Dragon During Night Dragon, threat actors used dynamic DNS services for C2.
C0016 Operation Dust
StormFor Operation Dust Storm, the threat actors used dynamic DNS domains from a variety of free providers,
including No-IP, Oray, and 3322.
C0005 Operation Spalax For Operation Spalax, the threat actors used dynamic DNS services, including Duck DNS and DNS Exit,
as part of their C2 infrastructure.
S0148 RTM RTM has resolved Pony C2 server IP addresses by either converting Bitcoin blockchain transaction data
to speciﬁc octets, or accessing IP addresses directly within the Namecoin blockchain.
C0024 SolarWinds
CompromiseDuring the SolarWinds Compromise, APT29 used dynamic DNS resolution to construct and resolve to
randomly-generated subdomains for C2.
S0559 SUNBURST SUNBURST dynamically resolved C2 infrastructure for randomly-generated subdomains within a parent
domain.
G1018 TA2541 TA2541 has used dynamic DNS services for C2 infrastructure.
S0671 Tomiris Tomiris has connected to a signalization server that provides a URL and port, and then Tomiris sends a
GET request to that URL to establish C2.
G0134 Transparent Tribe Transparent Tribe has used dynamic DNS services to set up C2.[4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]
[12]
[13]
[14]
[15]
[16][17]
[18]
[19]
[20]
[21]
[22]3/22/24, 3:51 PM Dynamic Resolution, Technique T1568 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1568/ 5/6Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1031 Network
Intrusion
PreventionNetwork intrusion detection and prevention systems that use network signatures to identify traﬃc for
speciﬁc adversary malware can be used to mitigate activity at the network level. Malware researchers can
reverse engineer malware variants that use dynamic resolution and determine future C2 infrastructure that
the malware will attempt to contact, but this is a time and resource intensive effort.
M1021 Restrict Web-
Based ContentIn some cases a local DNS sinkhole may be used to help prevent behaviors associated with dynamic
resolution.
Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0029 Network TraﬃcNetwork
Connection
CreationMonitor for newly constructed network connections that are sent or received by
untrusted hosts.
Network Traﬃc
ContentMonitor and analyze traﬃc patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that
do not follow the expected protocol standards and traﬃc ﬂows (e.g extraneous packets
that do not belong to established ﬂows, gratuitous or anomalous traﬃc patterns,
anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and
command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments
associated to traﬃc patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of ﬁles that do not normally
initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).
Network Traﬃc
FlowMonitor network data for uncommon data ﬂows. Processes utilizing the network that do
not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are
suspicious.[23][24]3/22/24, 3:51 PM Dynamic Resolution, Technique T1568 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1568/ 6/6References
1. Brumaghin, E. et al. (2017, September 18). CCleanup: A Vast
Number of Machines at Risk. Retrieved March 9, 2018.
2. Dunwoody, M.. (2017, April 3). Dissecting One of APT29’s
Fileless WMI and PowerShell Backdoors (POSHSPY).
Retrieved April 5, 2017.
3. ESET. (2017, December 21). Sednit update: How Fancy Bear
Spent the Year. Retrieved February 18, 2019.
4. Mandiant. (2022, May 2). UNC3524: Eye Spy on Your Email.
Retrieved August 17, 2023.
5. Nyan-x-Cat. (n.d.). NYAN-x-CAT / AsyncRAT-C-Sharp. Retrieved
October 3, 2023.
. Mercer, W., et al. (2020, March 5). Bisonal: 10 years of play.
Retrieved January 26, 2022.
7. Dela Paz, R. (2016, October 21). BITTER: a targeted attack
against Pakistan. Retrieved June 1, 2022.
. Hawley, S. et al. (2023, February 2). Turla: A Galaxy of
Opportunity. Retrieved May 15, 2023.
9. Unit 42. (2022, February 3). Russia’s Gamaredon aka Primitive
Bear APT Group Actively Targeting Ukraine. Retrieved February
21, 2022.
10. Dupuy, T. and Faou, M. (2021, June). Gelsemium. Retrieved
November 30, 2021.
11. Mundo, A. (2020, March 26). Ransomware Maze. Retrieved
May 18, 2020.
12. FireEye Labs. (2015, April). APT30 AND THE MECHANICS OF
A LONG-RUNNING CYBER ESPIONAGE OPERATION. Retrieved
May 1, 2015.13. McAfee® Foundstone® Professional Services and McAfee
Labs™. (2011, February 10). Global Energy Cyberattacks:
“Night Dragon”. Retrieved February 19, 2018.
14. Gross, J. (2016, February 23). Operation Dust Storm. Retrieved
December 22, 2021.
15. M. Porolli. (2021, January 21). Operation Spalax: Targeted
malware attacks in Colombia. Retrieved September 16, 2022.
1. Eisenkraft, K., Olshtein, A. (2019, October 17). Pony’s C&C
servers hidden inside the Bitcoin blockchain. Retrieved June
15, 2020.
17. Duncan, B., Harbison, M. (2019, January 23). Russian
Language Malspam Pushing Redaman Banking Malware.
Retrieved June 16, 2020.
1. Cash, D. et al. (2020, December 14). Dark Halo Leverages
SolarWinds Compromise to Breach Organizations. Retrieved
December 29, 2020.
19. FireEye. (2020, December 13). Highly Evasive Attacker
Leverages SolarWinds Supply Chain to Compromise Multiple
Global Victims With SUNBURST Backdoor. Retrieved January
4, 2021.
20. Larson, S. and Wise, J. (2022, February 15). Charting TA2541's
Flight. Retrieved September 12, 2023.
21. Kwiatkoswki, I. and Delcher, P. (2021, September 29). DarkHalo
After SolarWinds: the Tomiris connection. Retrieved December
27, 2021.
22. Huss, D. (2016, March 1). Operation Transparent Tribe.
Retrieved June 8, 2016.
23. Sternfeld, U. (2016). Dissecting Domain Generation
Algorithms: Eight Real World DGA Variants. Retrieved February
18, 2019.
24. Kasza, A. (2015, February 18). Using Algorithms to Brute Force
Algorithms. Retrieved February 18, 2019.