3/22/24, 3:42 PM Execution Guardrails: Environmental Keying, Sub-technique T1480.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1480/001/ 1/5Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:42 PM Execution Guardrails: Environmental Keying, Sub-technique T1480.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1480/001/ 2/5Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Execution Guardrails>Environmental Keying3/22/24, 3:42 PM Execution Guardrails: Environmental Keying, Sub-technique T1480.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1480/001/ 3/5Execution Guardrails: Environmental Keying
Adversaries may environmentally key payloads or other features of malware to evade defenses and constraint execution to a speciﬁc target
environment. Environmental keying uses cryptography to constrain execution or actions based on adversary supplied environment speciﬁc
conditions that are expected to be present on the target. Environmental keying is an implementation of Execution Guardrails that utilizes
cryptographic techniques for deriving encryption/decryption keys from speciﬁc types of values in a given computing environment.
Values can be derived from target-speciﬁc elements and used to generate a decryption key for an encrypted payload. Target-speciﬁc values
can be derived from speciﬁc network shares, physical devices, software/software versions, ﬁles, joined AD domains, system time, and
local/external IP addresses. By generating the decryption keys from target-speciﬁc environmental values, environmental keying can
make sandbox detection, anti-virus detection, crowdsourcing of information, and reverse engineering diﬃcult. These diﬃculties can slow
down the incident response process and help adversaries hide their tactics, techniques, and procedures (TTPs).
Similar to Obfuscated Files or Information, adversaries may use environmental keying to help protect their TTPs and evade detection.
Environmental keying may be used to deliver an encrypted payload to the target that will use target-speciﬁc values to decrypt the payload
before execution. By utilizing target-speciﬁc values to decrypt the payload the adversary can avoid packaging the decryption key
with the payload or sending it over a potentially monitored network connection. Depending on the technique for gathering target-speciﬁc
values, reverse engineering of the encrypted payload can be exceptionally diﬃcult. This can be used to prevent exposure of capabilities in
environments that are not intended to be compromised or operated within.
Like other Execution Guardrails, environmental keying can be used to prevent exposure of capabilities in environments that are not intended
to be compromised or operated within. This activity is distinct from typical Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion. While use of
Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion may involve checking for known sandbox values and continuing with execution only if there is no match,
the use of environmental keying will involve checking for an expected target-speciﬁc value that must match for decryption and subsequent
execution to be successful.[1]
[2][3][4][5][6]
[2][6]
[2][4][5][6][7]
[2]
Version PermalinkID: T1480.001
Sub-technique of:  T1480

Tactic: Defense Evasion

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS

Defense Bypassed: Anti-virus, Host Forensic Analysis, Signature-based Detection, Static File Analysis
Contributors: Nick Carr, Mandiant
Version: 1.0
Created: 23 June 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 04 May 20223/22/24, 3:42 PM Execution Guardrails: Environmental Keying, Sub-technique T1480.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1480/001/ 4/5Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0096 APT41 APT41 has encrypted payloads using the Data Protection API (DPAPI), which relies on keys tied to speciﬁc
user accounts on speciﬁc machines. APT41 has also environmentally keyed second stage malware with an
RC5 key derived in part from the infected system's volume serial number.
G0020 Equation Equation has been observed utilizing environmental keying in payload delivery.
S0260 InvisiMole InvisiMole can use Data Protection API to encrypt its components on the victim’s computer, to evade
detection, and to make sure the payload can only be decrypted and loaded on one speciﬁc compromised
computer.
S0685 PowerPunch PowerPunch can use the volume serial number from a target host to generate a unique XOR key for the next
stage payload.
S0240 ROKRAT ROKRAT relies on a speciﬁc victim hostname to execute and decrypt important strings.
S0141 Winnti for
WindowsThe Winnti for Windows dropper component can verify the existence of a single command line parameter
and either terminate if it is not found or later use it as a decryption key.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1055 Do Not
MitigateEnvironmental Keying likely should not be mitigated with preventative controls because it may protect
unintended targets from being compromised. If targeted, efforts should be focused on preventing adversary
tools from running earlier in the chain of activity and on identifying subsequent malicious behavior if
compromised.
Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that may gather the victim's physical
location(s) that can be used during targeting. Detecting the use of environmental keying may
be diﬃcult depending on the implementation.
DS0009 Process Process
CreationMonitoring for suspicious processes being spawned that gather a variety of system
information or perform other forms of Discovery, especially in a short period of time, may aid
in detection. Detecting the use of environmental keying may be diﬃcult depending on the
implementation.[8]
[2][9]
[10]
[11]
[12]
[13]3/22/24, 3:42 PM Execution Guardrails: Environmental Keying, Sub-technique T1480.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1480/001/ 5/5References
1. Riordan, J., Schneier, B. (1998, June 18). Environmental Key
Generation towards Clueless Agents. Retrieved January 18,
2019.
2. Kaspersky Lab. (2012, August). Gauss: Abnormal Distribution.
Retrieved January 17, 2019.
3. Kafeine. (2016, December 13). Home Routers Under Attack via
Malvertising on Windows, Android Devices. Retrieved January
16, 2019.
4. Song, C., et al. (2012, August 7). Impeding Automated
Malware Analysis with Environment-sensitive Malware.
Retrieved January 18, 2019.
5. Warren, R. (2017, August 8). Smuggling HTA ﬁles in Internet
Explorer/Edge. Retrieved January 16, 2019.
. Morrow, T., Pitts, J. (2016, October 28). Genetic Malware:
Designing Payloads for Speciﬁc Targets. Retrieved January
18, 2019.
7. Warren, R. (2017, August 2). Demiguise: virginkey.js. Retrieved
January 17, 2019.. Carr, N. (2019, October 30). Nick Carr Status Update APT41
Environmental Keying. Retrieved June 23, 2020.
9. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research and Analysis Team. (2015,
February). Equation Group: Questions and Answers. Retrieved
December 21, 2015.
10. Hromcova, Z. and Cherpanov, A. (2020, June). INVISIMOLE:
THE HIDDEN PART OF THE STORY. Retrieved July 16, 2020.
11. Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center. (2022, February 4).
ACTINIUM targets Ukrainian organizations. Retrieved February
18, 2022.
12. Cash, D., Grunzweig, J., Adair, S., Lancaster, T. (2021, August
25). North Korean BLUELIGHT Special: InkySquid Deploys
RokRAT. Retrieved October 1, 2021.
13. Novetta Threat Research Group. (2015, April 7). Winnti
Analysis. Retrieved February 8, 2017.