3/22/24, 3:32 PM Command and Control, Tactic TA0011 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0011/ 1/8Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Command and Control, Tactic TA0011 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0011/ 2/8Home>Tactics>Enterprise>Command and Control3/22/24, 3:32 PM Command and Control, Tactic TA0011 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0011/ 3/8Command and Control
Techniques
Techniques: 17The adversary is trying to communicate with compromised systems to control them.
Command and Control consists of techniques that adversaries may use to communicate with systems under their control within a victim
network. Adversaries commonly attempt to mimic normal, expected traﬃc to avoid detection. There are many ways an adversary can
establish command and control with various levels of stealth depending on the victim’s network structure and defenses.
Version PermalinkID: TA0011
Created: 17 October 2018
Last Modiﬁed: 19 July 20193/22/24, 3:32 PM Command and Control, Tactic TA0011 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0011/ 4/8ID Name Description
T1071 Application Layer
ProtocolAdversaries may communicate using OSI application layer protocols to avoid detection/network
ﬁltering by blending in with existing traﬃc. Commands to the remote system, and often the results of
those commands, will be embedded within the protocol traﬃc between the client and server.
.001 Web Protocols Adversaries may communicate using application layer protocols associated with web traﬃc to avoid
detection/network ﬁltering by blending in with existing traﬃc. Commands to the remote system, and
often the results of those commands, will be embedded within the protocol traﬃc between the client
and server.
.002 File Transfer
ProtocolsAdversaries may communicate using application layer protocols associated with transferring ﬁles to
avoid detection/network ﬁltering by blending in with existing traﬃc. Commands to the remote system,
and often the results of those commands, will be embedded within the protocol traﬃc between the
client and server.
.003 Mail Protocols Adversaries may communicate using application layer protocols associated with electronic mail
delivery to avoid detection/network ﬁltering by blending in with existing traﬃc. Commands to the
remote system, and often the results of those commands, will be embedded within the protocol traﬃc
between the client and server.
.004 DNS Adversaries may communicate using the Domain Name System (DNS) application layer protocol to
avoid detection/network ﬁltering by blending in with existing traﬃc. Commands to the remote system,
and often the results of those commands, will be embedded within the protocol traﬃc between the
client and server.
T1092 Communication
Through
Removable MediaAdversaries can perform command and control between compromised hosts on potentially
disconnected networks using removable media to transfer commands from system to system. Both
systems would need to be compromised, with the likelihood that an Internet-connected system was
compromised ﬁrst and the second through lateral movement by Replication Through Removable
Media. Commands and ﬁles would be relayed from the disconnected system to the Internet-connected
system to which the adversary has direct access.
T1659 Content Injection Adversaries may gain access and continuously communicate with victims by injecting malicious
content into systems through online network traﬃc. Rather than luring victims to malicious payloads
hosted on a compromised website (i.e., Drive-by Target followed by Drive-by Compromise),
adversaries may initially access victims through compromised data-transfer channels where they can
manipulate traﬃc and/or inject their own content. These compromised online network channels may
also be used to deliver additional payloads (i.e., Ingress Tool Transfer) and other data to already
compromised systems.
T1132 Data Encoding Adversaries may encode data to make the content of command and control traﬃc more diﬃcult to
detect. Command and control (C2) information can be encoded using a standard data encoding
system. Use of data encoding may adhere to existing protocol speciﬁcations and includes use of
ASCII, Unicode, Base64, MIME, or other binary-to-text and character encoding systems. Some data
encoding systems may also result in data compression, such as gzip.
.001 Standard
EncodingAdversaries may encode data with a standard data encoding system to make the content of
command and control traﬃc more diﬃcult to detect. Command and control (C2) information can be
encoded using a standard data encoding system that adheres to existing protocol speciﬁcations.
Common data encoding schemes include ASCII, Unicode, hexadecimal, Base64, and MIME. Some
data encoding systems may also result in data compression, such as gzip.
.002 Non-Standard
EncodingAdversaries may encode data with a non-standard data encoding system to make the content of
command and control traﬃc more diﬃcult to detect. Command and control (C2) information can be
encoded using a non-standard data encoding system that diverges from existing protocol
speciﬁcations. Non-standard data encoding schemes may be based on or related to standard data
encoding schemes, such as a modiﬁed Base64 encoding for the message body of an HTTP request.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Command and Control, Tactic TA0011 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0011/ 5/8ID Name Description
T1001 Data Obfuscation Adversaries may obfuscate command and control traﬃc to make it more diﬃcult to detect. Command
and control (C2) communications are hidden (but not necessarily encrypted) in an attempt to make
the content more diﬃcult to discover or decipher and to make the communication less conspicuous
and hide commands from being seen. This encompasses many methods, such as adding junk data to
protocol traﬃc, using steganography, or impersonating legitimate protocols.
.001 Junk Data Adversaries may add junk data to protocols used for command and control to make detection more
diﬃcult. By adding random or meaningless data to the protocols used for command and control,
adversaries can prevent trivial methods for decoding, deciphering, or otherwise analyzing the traﬃc.
Examples may include appending/prepending data with junk characters or writing junk characters
between signiﬁcant characters.
.002 Steganography Adversaries may use steganographic techniques to hide command and control traﬃc to make
detection efforts more diﬃcult. Steganographic techniques can be used to hide data in digital
messages that are transferred between systems. This hidden information can be used for command
and control of compromised systems. In some cases, the passing of ﬁles embedded using
steganography, such as image or document ﬁles, can be used for command and control.
.003 Protocol
ImpersonationAdversaries may impersonate legitimate protocols or web service traﬃc to disguise command and
control activity and thwart analysis efforts. By impersonating legitimate protocols or web services,
adversaries can make their command and control traﬃc blend in with legitimate network traﬃc.
T1568 Dynamic
ResolutionAdversaries may dynamically establish connections to command and control infrastructure to evade
common detections and remediations. This may be achieved by using malware that shares a
common algorithm with the infrastructure the adversary uses to receive the malware's
communications. These calculations can be used to dynamically adjust parameters such as the
domain name, IP address, or port number the malware uses for command and control.
.001 Fast Flux DNS Adversaries may use Fast Flux DNS to hide a command and control channel behind an array of
rapidly changing IP addresses linked to a single domain resolution. This technique uses a fully
qualiﬁed domain name, with multiple IP addresses assigned to it which are swapped with high
frequency, using a combination of round robin IP addressing and short Time-To-Live (TTL) for a DNS
resource record.
.002 Domain
Generation
AlgorithmsAdversaries may make use of Domain Generation Algorithms (DGAs) to dynamically identify a
destination domain for command and control traﬃc rather than relying on a list of static IP addresses
or domains. This has the advantage of making it much harder for defenders to block, track, or take
over the command and control channel, as there potentially could be thousands of domains that
malware can check for instructions.
.003 DNS Calculation Adversaries may perform calculations on addresses returned in DNS results to determine which port
and IP address to use for command and control, rather than relying on a predetermined port number
or the actual returned IP address. A IP and/or port number calculation can be used to bypass egress
ﬁltering on a C2 channel.
T1573 Encrypted ChannelAdversaries may employ a known encryption algorithm to conceal command and control traﬃc rather
than relying on any inherent protections provided by a communication protocol. Despite the use of a
secure algorithm, these implementations may be vulnerable to reverse engineering if secret keys are
encoded and/or generated within malware samples/conﬁguration ﬁles.
.001 Symmetric
CryptographyAdversaries may employ a known symmetric encryption algorithm to conceal command and control
traﬃc rather than relying on any inherent protections provided by a communication protocol.
Symmetric encryption algorithms use the same key for plaintext encryption and ciphertext decryption.
Common symmetric encryption algorithms include AES, DES, 3DES, Blowﬁsh, and RC4.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Command and Control, Tactic TA0011 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0011/ 6/8ID Name Description
.002 Asymmetric
CryptographyAdversaries may employ a known asymmetric encryption algorithm to conceal command and control
traﬃc rather than relying on any inherent protections provided by a communication protocol.
Asymmetric cryptography, also known as public key cryptography, uses a keypair per party: one public
that can be freely distributed, and one private. Due to how the keys are generated, the sender encrypts
data with the receiver’s public key and the receiver decrypts the data with their private key. This
ensures that only the intended recipient can read the encrypted data. Common public key encryption
algorithms include RSA and ElGamal.
T1008 Fallback Channels Adversaries may use fallback or alternate communication channels if the primary channel is
compromised or inaccessible in order to maintain reliable command and control and to avoid data
transfer thresholds.
T1105 Ingress Tool
TransferAdversaries may transfer tools or other ﬁles from an external system into a compromised
environment. Tools or ﬁles may be copied from an external adversary-controlled system to the victim
network through the command and control channel or through alternate protocols such as ftp. Once
present, adversaries may also transfer/spread tools between victim devices within a compromised
environment (i.e. Lateral Tool Transfer).
T1104 Multi-Stage
ChannelsAdversaries may create multiple stages for command and control that are employed under different
conditions or for certain functions. Use of multiple stages may obfuscate the command and control
channel to make detection more diﬃcult.
T1095 Non-Application
Layer ProtocolAdversaries may use an OSI non-application layer protocol for communication between host and C2
server or among infected hosts within a network. The list of possible protocols is extensive. Speciﬁc
examples include use of network layer protocols, such as the Internet Control Message Protocol
(ICMP), transport layer protocols, such as the User Datagram Protocol (UDP), session layer protocols,
such as Socket Secure (SOCKS), as well as redirected/tunneled protocols, such as Serial over LAN
(SOL).
T1571 Non-Standard PortAdversaries may communicate using a protocol and port pairing that are typically not associated. For
example, HTTPS over port 8088 or port 587 as opposed to the traditional port 443. Adversaries may
make changes to the standard port used by a protocol to bypass ﬁltering or muddle analysis/parsing
of network data.
T1572 Protocol
TunnelingAdversaries may tunnel network communications to and from a victim system within a separate
protocol to avoid detection/network ﬁltering and/or enable access to otherwise unreachable systems.
Tunneling involves explicitly encapsulating a protocol within another. This behavior may conceal
malicious traﬃc by blending in with existing traﬃc and/or provide an outer layer of encryption (similar
to a VPN). Tunneling could also enable routing of network packets that would otherwise not reach
their intended destination, such as SMB, RDP, or other traﬃc that would be ﬁltered by network
appliances or not routed over the Internet.
T1090 Proxy Adversaries may use a connection proxy to direct network traﬃc between systems or act as an
intermediary for network communications to a command and control server to avoid direct
connections to their infrastructure. Many tools exist that enable traﬃc redirection through proxies or
port redirection, including HTRAN, ZXProxy, and ZXPortMap. Adversaries use these types of proxies to
manage command and control communications, reduce the number of simultaneous outbound
network connections, provide resiliency in the face of connection loss, or to ride over existing trusted
communications paths between victims to avoid suspicion. Adversaries may chain together multiple
proxies to further disguise the source of malicious traﬃc.
.001 Internal Proxy Adversaries may use an internal proxy to direct command and control traﬃc between two or more
systems in a compromised environment. Many tools exist that enable traﬃc redirection through
proxies or port redirection, including HTRAN, ZXProxy, and ZXPortMap. Adversaries use internal
proxies to manage command and control communications inside a compromised environment, to
reduce the number of simultaneous outbound network connections, to provide resiliency in the face of
connection loss, or to ride over existing trusted communications paths between infected systems to
avoid suspicion. Internal proxy connections may use common peer-to-peer (p2p) networking
protocols, such as SMB, to better blend in with the environment.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Command and Control, Tactic TA0011 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0011/ 7/8ID Name Description
.002 External Proxy Adversaries may use an external proxy to act as an intermediary for network communications to a
command and control server to avoid direct connections to their infrastructure. Many tools exist that
enable traﬃc redirection through proxies or port redirection, including HTRAN, ZXProxy, and
ZXPortMap. Adversaries use these types of proxies to manage command and control
communications, to provide resiliency in the face of connection loss, or to ride over existing trusted
communications paths to avoid suspicion.
.003 Multi-hop Proxy To disguise the source of malicious traﬃc, adversaries may chain together multiple proxies. Typically,
a defender will be able to identify the last proxy traﬃc traversed before it enters their network; the
defender may or may not be able to identify any previous proxies before the last-hop proxy. This
technique makes identifying the original source of the malicious traﬃc even more diﬃcult by requiring
the defender to trace malicious traﬃc through several proxies to identify its source. A particular
variant of this behavior is to use onion routing networks, such as the publicly available TOR network.
.004 Domain Fronting Adversaries may take advantage of routing schemes in Content Delivery Networks (CDNs) and other
services which host multiple domains to obfuscate the intended destination of HTTPS traﬃc or traﬃc
tunneled through HTTPS. Domain fronting involves using different domain names in the SNI ﬁeld of
the TLS header and the Host ﬁeld of the HTTP header. If both domains are served from the same CDN,
then the CDN may route to the address speciﬁed in the HTTP header after unwrapping the TLS header.
A variation of the the technique, "domainless" fronting, utilizes a SNI ﬁeld that is left blank; this may
allow the fronting to work even when the CDN attempts to validate that the SNI and HTTP Host ﬁelds
match (if the blank SNI ﬁelds are ignored).
T1219 Remote Access
SoftwareAn adversary may use legitimate desktop support and remote access software to establish an
interactive command and control channel to target systems within networks. These services, such as
VNC, Team Viewer , AnyDesk , ScreenConnect , LogMein , AmmyyAdmin , and other remote monitoring
and management (RMM) tools, are commonly used as legitimate technical support software and may
be allowed by application control within a target environment.
T1205 Traﬃc Signaling Adversaries may use traﬃc signaling to hide open ports or other malicious functionality used for
persistence or command and control. Traﬃc signaling involves the use of a magic value or sequence
that must be sent to a system to trigger a special response, such as opening a closed port or
executing a malicious task. This may take the form of sending a series of packets with certain
characteristics before a port will be opened that the adversary can use for command and control.
Usually this series of packets consists of attempted connections to a predeﬁned sequence of closed
ports (i.e. Port Knocking), but can involve unusual ﬂags, speciﬁc strings, or other unique
characteristics. After the sequence is completed, opening a port may be accomplished by the host-
based ﬁrewall, but could also be implemented by custom software.
.001 Port Knocking Adversaries may use port knocking to hide open ports used for persistence or command and control.
To enable a port, an adversary sends a series of attempted connections to a predeﬁned sequence of
closed ports. After the sequence is completed, opening a port is often accomplished by the host based
ﬁrewall, but could also be implemented by custom software.
.002 Socket Filters Adversaries may attach ﬁlters to a network socket to monitor then activate backdoors used for
persistence or command and control. With elevated permissions, adversaries can use features such
as the libpcap library to open sockets and install ﬁlters to allow or disallow certain types of data to
come through the socket. The ﬁlter may apply to all traﬃc passing through the speciﬁed network
interface (or every interface if not speciﬁed). When the network interface receives a packet matching
the ﬁlter criteria, additional actions can be triggered on the host, such as activation of a reverse shell.
T1102 Web Service Adversaries may use an existing, legitimate external Web service as a means for relaying data to/from
a compromised system. Popular websites and social media acting as a mechanism for C2 may give a
signiﬁcant amount of cover due to the likelihood that hosts within a network are already
communicating with them prior to a compromise. Using common services, such as those offered by
Google or Twitter, makes it easier for adversaries to hide in expected noise. Web service providers
commonly use SSL/TLS encryption, giving adversaries an added level of protection.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Command and Control, Tactic TA0011 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0011/ 8/8ID Name Description
.001 Dead Drop
ResolverAdversaries may use an existing, legitimate external Web service to host information that points to
additional command and control (C2) infrastructure. Adversaries may post content, known as a dead
drop resolver, on Web services with embedded (and often obfuscated/encoded) domains or IP
addresses. Once infected, victims will reach out to and be redirected by these resolvers.
.002 Bidirectional
CommunicationAdversaries may use an existing, legitimate external Web service as a means for sending commands
to and receiving output from a compromised system over the Web service channel. Compromised
systems may leverage popular websites and social media to host command and control (C2)
instructions. Those infected systems can then send the output from those commands back over that
Web service channel. The return traﬃc may occur in a variety of ways, depending on the Web service
being utilized. For example, the return traﬃc may take the form of the compromised system posting a
comment on a forum, issuing a pull request to development project, updating a document hosted on a
Web service, or by sending a Tweet.
.003 One-Way
CommunicationAdversaries may use an existing, legitimate external Web service as a means for sending commands
to a compromised system without receiving return output over the Web service channel. Compromised
systems may leverage popular websites and social media to host command and control (C2)
instructions. Those infected systems may opt to send the output from those commands back over a
different C2 channel, including to another distinct Web service. Alternatively, compromised systems
may return no output at all in cases where adversaries want to send instructions to systems and do
not want a response.