3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 1/23Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 2/23Home>Tactics>Enterprise>Defense Evasion3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 3/23Defense Evasion
Techniques
Techniques: 43The adversary is trying to avoid being detected.
Defense Evasion consists of techniques that adversaries use to avoid detection throughout their compromise. Techniques used for defense
evasion include uninstalling/disabling security software or obfuscating/encrypting data and scripts. Adversaries also leverage and abuse
trusted processes to hide and masquerade their malware. Other tactics’ techniques are cross-listed here when those techniques include the
added beneﬁt of subverting defenses.
Version PermalinkID: TA0005
Created: 17 October 2018
Last Modiﬁed: 19 July 20193/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 4/23ID Name Description
T1548 Abuse Elevation Control
MechanismAdversaries may circumvent mechanisms designed to control elevate privileges to gain higher-
level permissions. Most modern systems contain native elevation control mechanisms that
are intended to limit privileges that a user can perform on a machine. Authorization has to be
granted to speciﬁc users in order to perform tasks that can be considered of higher risk. An
adversary can perform several methods to take advantage of built-in control mechanisms in
order to escalate privileges on a system.
.001 Setuid and Setgid An adversary may abuse conﬁgurations where an application has the setuid or setgid bits set
in order to get code running in a different (and possibly more privileged) user’s context. On
Linux or macOS, when the setuid or setgid bits are set for an application binary, the
application will run with the privileges of the owning user or group respectively. Normally an
application is run in the current user’s context, regardless of which user or group owns the
application. However, there are instances where programs need to be executed in an elevated
context to function properly, but the user running them may not have the speciﬁc required
privileges.
.002 Bypass User Account
ControlAdversaries may bypass UAC mechanisms to elevate process privileges on system. Windows
User Account Control (UAC) allows a program to elevate its privileges (tracked as integrity
levels ranging from low to high) to perform a task under administrator-level permissions,
possibly by prompting the user for conﬁrmation. The impact to the user ranges from denying
the operation under high enforcement to allowing the user to perform the action if they are in
the local administrators group and click through the prompt or allowing them to enter an
administrator password to complete the action.
.003 Sudo and Sudo Caching Adversaries may perform sudo caching and/or use the sudoers ﬁle to elevate privileges.
Adversaries may do this to execute commands as other users or spawn processes with higher
privileges.
.004 Elevated Execution with
PromptAdversaries may leverage the AuthorizationExecuteWithPrivileges API to escalate
privileges by prompting the user for credentials. The purpose of this API is to give application
developers an easy way to perform operations with root privileges, such as for application
installation or updating. This API does not validate that the program requesting root privileges
comes from a reputable source or has been maliciously modiﬁed.
.005 Temporary Elevated Cloud
AccessAdversaries may abuse permission conﬁgurations that allow them to gain temporarily
elevated access to cloud resources. Many cloud environments allow administrators to grant
user or service accounts permission to request just-in-time access to roles, impersonate other
accounts, pass roles onto resources and services, or otherwise gain short-term access to a set
of privileges that may be distinct from their own.
T1134 Access Token
ManipulationAdversaries may modify access tokens to operate under a different user or system security
context to perform actions and bypass access controls. Windows uses access tokens to
determine the ownership of a running process. A user can manipulate access tokens to make
a running process appear as though it is the child of a different process or belongs to
someone other than the user that started the process. When this occurs, the process also takes
on the security context associated with the new token.
.001 Token
Impersonation/TheftAdversaries may duplicate then impersonate another user's existing token to escalate
privileges and bypass access controls. For example, an adversary can duplicate an existing
token using DuplicateToken or DuplicateTokenEx . The token can then be used with
ImpersonateLoggedOnUser to allow the calling thread to impersonate a logged on user's
security context, or with SetThreadToken to assign the impersonated token to a thread.
.002 Create Process with Token Adversaries may create a new process with an existing token to escalate privileges and
bypass access controls. Processes can be created with the token and resulting security
context of another user using features such as CreateProcessWithTokenW and runas .3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 5/23ID Name Description
.003 Make and Impersonate
TokenAdversaries may make new tokens and impersonate users to escalate privileges and bypass
access controls. For example, if an adversary has a username and password but the user is
not logged onto the system the adversary can then create a logon session for the user using
the LogonUser function. The function will return a copy of the new session's access token and
the adversary can use SetThreadToken to assign the token to a thread.
.004 Parent PID Spooﬁng Adversaries may spoof the parent process identiﬁer (PPID) of a new process to evade process-
monitoring defenses or to elevate privileges. New processes are typically spawned directly
from their parent, or calling, process unless explicitly speciﬁed. One way of explicitly assigning
the PPID of a new process is via the CreateProcess API call, which supports a parameter that
deﬁnes the PPID to use. This functionality is used by Windows features such as User Account
Control (UAC) to correctly set the PPID after a requested elevated process is spawned by
SYSTEM (typically via svchost.exe or consent.exe ) rather than the current user context.
.005 SID-History Injection Adversaries may use SID-History Injection to escalate privileges and bypass access controls.
The Windows security identiﬁer (SID) is a unique value that identiﬁes a user or group account.
SIDs are used by Windows security in both security descriptors and access tokens. An account
can hold additional SIDs in the SID-History Active Directory attribute , allowing inter-operable
account migration between domains (e.g., all values in SID-History are included in access
tokens).
T1197 BITS Jobs Adversaries may abuse BITS jobs to persistently execute code and perform various
background tasks. Windows Background Intelligent Transfer Service (BITS) is a low-
bandwidth, asynchronous ﬁle transfer mechanism exposed through Component Object Model
(COM). BITS is commonly used by updaters, messengers, and other applications preferred to
operate in the background (using available idle bandwidth) without interrupting other
networked applications. File transfer tasks are implemented as BITS jobs, which contain a
queue of one or more ﬁle operations.
T1612 Build Image on Host Adversaries may build a container image directly on a host to bypass defenses that monitor
for the retrieval of malicious images from a public registry. A remote build request may be
sent to the Docker API that includes a Dockerﬁle that pulls a vanilla base image, such as
alpine, from a public or local registry and then builds a custom image upon it.
T1622 Debugger Evasion Adversaries may employ various means to detect and avoid debuggers. Debuggers are
typically used by defenders to trace and/or analyze the execution of potential malware
payloads.
T1140 Deobfuscate/Decode
Files or InformationAdversaries may use Obfuscated Files or Information to hide artifacts of an intrusion from
analysis. They may require separate mechanisms to decode or deobfuscate that information
depending on how they intend to use it. Methods for doing that include built-in functionality of
malware or by using utilities present on the system.
T1610 Deploy Container Adversaries may deploy a container into an environment to facilitate execution or evade
defenses. In some cases, adversaries may deploy a new container to execute processes
associated with a particular image or deployment, such as processes that execute or
download malware. In others, an adversary may deploy a new container conﬁgured without
network rules, user limitations, etc. to bypass existing defenses within the environment.
T1006 Direct Volume Access Adversaries may directly access a volume to bypass ﬁle access controls and ﬁle system
monitoring. Windows allows programs to have direct access to logical volumes. Programs
with direct access may read and write ﬁles directly from the drive by analyzing ﬁle system
data structures. This technique may bypass Windows ﬁle access controls as well as ﬁle
system monitoring tools.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 6/23ID Name Description
T1484 Domain Policy
ModiﬁcationAdversaries may modify the conﬁguration settings of a domain to evade defenses and/or
escalate privileges in domain environments. Domains provide a centralized means of
managing how computer resources (ex: computers, user accounts) can act, and interact with
each other, on a network. The policy of the domain also includes conﬁguration settings that
may apply between domains in a multi-domain/forest environment. Modiﬁcations to domain
settings may include altering domain Group Policy Objects (GPOs) or changing trust settings
for domains, including federation trusts.
.001 Group Policy Modiﬁcation Adversaries may modify Group Policy Objects (GPOs) to subvert the intended discretionary
access controls for a domain, usually with the intention of escalating privileges on the
domain. Group policy allows for centralized management of user and computer settings in
Active Directory (AD). GPOs are containers for group policy settings made up of ﬁles stored
within a predictable network path \\SYSVOL\\Policies\ .
.002 Domain Trust
ModiﬁcationAdversaries may add new domain trusts or modify the properties of existing domain trusts to
evade defenses and/or elevate privileges. Domain trust details, such as whether or not a
domain is federated, allow authentication and authorization properties to apply between
domains for the purpose of accessing shared resources. These trust objects may include
accounts, credentials, and other authentication material applied to servers, tokens, and
domains.
T1480 Execution Guardrails Adversaries may use execution guardrails to constrain execution or actions based on
adversary supplied and environment speciﬁc conditions that are expected to be present on the
target. Guardrails ensure that a payload only executes against an intended target and reduces
collateral damage from an adversary’s campaign. Values an adversary can provide about a
target system or environment to use as guardrails may include speciﬁc network share names,
attached physical devices, ﬁles, joined Active Directory (AD) domains, and local/external IP
addresses.
.001 Environmental Keying Adversaries may environmentally key payloads or other features of malware to evade
defenses and constraint execution to a speciﬁc target environment. Environmental keying
uses cryptography to constrain execution or actions based on adversary supplied environment
speciﬁc conditions that are expected to be present on the target. Environmental keying is an
implementation of Execution Guardrails that utilizes cryptographic techniques for deriving
encryption/decryption keys from speciﬁc types of values in a given computing environment.
T1211 Exploitation for Defense
EvasionAdversaries may exploit a system or application vulnerability to bypass security features.
Exploitation of a vulnerability occurs when an adversary takes advantage of a programming
error in a program, service, or within the operating system software or kernel itself to execute
adversary-controlled code. Vulnerabilities may exist in defensive security software that can be
used to disable or circumvent them.
T1222 File and Directory
Permissions ModiﬁcationAdversaries may modify ﬁle or directory permissions/attributes to evade access control lists
(ACLs) and access protected ﬁles. File and directory permissions are commonly managed by
ACLs conﬁgured by the ﬁle or directory owner, or users with the appropriate permissions. File
and directory ACL implementations vary by platform, but generally explicitly designate which
users or groups can perform which actions (read, write, execute, etc.).
.001 Windows File and
Directory Permissions
ModiﬁcationAdversaries may modify ﬁle or directory permissions/attributes to evade access control lists
(ACLs) and access protected ﬁles. File and directory permissions are commonly managed by
ACLs conﬁgured by the ﬁle or directory owner, or users with the appropriate permissions. File
and directory ACL implementations vary by platform, but generally explicitly designate which
users or groups can perform which actions (read, write, execute, etc.).
.002 Linux and Mac File and
Directory Permissions
ModiﬁcationAdversaries may modify ﬁle or directory permissions/attributes to evade access control lists
(ACLs) and access protected ﬁles. File and directory permissions are commonly managed by
ACLs conﬁgured by the ﬁle or directory owner, or users with the appropriate permissions. File
and directory ACL implementations vary by platform, but generally explicitly designate which
users or groups can perform which actions (read, write, execute, etc.).3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 7/23ID Name Description
T1564 Hide Artifacts Adversaries may attempt to hide artifacts associated with their behaviors to evade detection.
Operating systems may have features to hide various artifacts, such as important system ﬁles
and administrative task execution, to avoid disrupting user work environments and prevent
users from changing ﬁles or features on the system. Adversaries may abuse these features to
hide artifacts such as ﬁles, directories, user accounts, or other system activity to evade
detection.
.001 Hidden Files and
DirectoriesAdversaries may set ﬁles and directories to be hidden to evade detection mechanisms. To
prevent normal users from accidentally changing special ﬁles on a system, most operating
systems have the concept of a ‘hidden’ ﬁle. These ﬁles don’t show up when a user browses the
ﬁle system with a GUI or when using normal commands on the command line. Users must
explicitly ask to show the hidden ﬁles either via a series of Graphical User Interface (GUI)
prompts or with command line switches (dir /a for Windows and ls –a for Linux and
macOS).
.002 Hidden Users Adversaries may use hidden users to hide the presence of user accounts they create or modify.
Administrators may want to hide users when there are many user accounts on a given system
or if they want to hide their administrative or other management accounts from other users.
.003 Hidden Window Adversaries may use hidden windows to conceal malicious activity from the plain sight of
users. In some cases, windows that would typically be displayed when an application carries
out an operation can be hidden. This may be utilized by system administrators to avoid
disrupting user work environments when carrying out administrative tasks.
.004 NTFS File Attributes Adversaries may use NTFS ﬁle attributes to hide their malicious data in order to evade
detection. Every New Technology File System (NTFS) formatted partition contains a Master
File Table (MFT) that maintains a record for every ﬁle/directory on the partition. Within MFT
entries are ﬁle attributes, such as Extended Attributes (EA) and Data [known as Alternate Data
Streams (ADSs) when more than one Data attribute is present], that can be used to store
arbitrary data (and even complete ﬁles).
.005 Hidden File System Adversaries may use a hidden ﬁle system to conceal malicious activity from users and
security tools. File systems provide a structure to store and access data from physical storage.
Typically, a user engages with a ﬁle system through applications that allow them to access
ﬁles and directories, which are an abstraction from their physical location (ex: disk sector).
Standard ﬁle systems include FAT, NTFS, ext4, and APFS. File systems can also contain other
structures, such as the Volume Boot Record (VBR) and Master File Table (MFT) in NTFS.
.006 Run Virtual Instance Adversaries may carry out malicious operations using a virtual instance to avoid detection. A
wide variety of virtualization technologies exist that allow for the emulation of a computer or
computing environment. By running malicious code inside of a virtual instance, adversaries
can hide artifacts associated with their behavior from security tools that are unable to monitor
activity inside the virtual instance. Additionally, depending on the virtual networking
implementation (ex: bridged adapter), network traﬃc generated by the virtual instance can be
diﬃcult to trace back to the compromised host as the IP address and hostname might not
match known values.
.007 VBA Stomping Adversaries may hide malicious Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) payloads embedded
within MS Oﬃce documents by replacing the VBA source code with benign data.
.008 Email Hiding Rules Adversaries may use email rules to hide inbound emails in a compromised user's mailbox.
Many email clients allow users to create inbox rules for various email functions, including
moving emails to other folders, marking emails as read, or deleting emails. Rules may be
created or modiﬁed within email clients or through external features such as the New-
InboxRule or Set-InboxRule PowerShell cmdlets on Windows systems.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 8/23ID Name Description
.009 Resource Forking Adversaries may abuse resource forks to hide malicious code or executables to evade
detection and bypass security applications. A resource fork provides applications a structured
way to store resources such as thumbnail images, menu deﬁnitions, icons, dialog boxes, and
code. Usage of a resource fork is identiﬁable when displaying a ﬁle’s extended attributes, using
ls -l@ or xattr -l commands. Resource forks have been deprecated and replaced with the
application bundle structure. Non-localized resources are placed at the top level directory of an
application bundle, while localized resources are placed in the /Resources folder.
.010 Process Argument
SpooﬁngAdversaries may attempt to hide process command-line arguments by overwriting process
memory. Process command-line arguments are stored in the process environment block (PEB),
a data structure used by Windows to store various information about/used by a process. The
PEB includes the process command-line arguments that are referenced when executing the
process. When a process is created, defensive tools/sensors that monitor process creations
may retrieve the process arguments from the PEB.
.011 Ignore Process Interrupts Adversaries may evade defensive mechanisms by executing commands that hide from
process interrupt signals. Many operating systems use signals to deliver messages to control
process behavior. Command interpreters often include speciﬁc commands/ﬂags that ignore
errors and other hangups, such as when the user of the active session logs off. These interrupt
signals may also be used by defensive tools and/or analysts to pause or terminate speciﬁed
running processes.
T1574 Hijack Execution Flow Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the way operating
systems run programs. Hijacking execution ﬂow can be for the purposes of persistence, since
this hijacked execution may reoccur over time. Adversaries may also use these mechanisms to
elevate privileges or evade defenses, such as application control or other restrictions on
execution.
.001 DLL Search Order
HijackingAdversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the search order used to
load DLLs. Windows systems use a common method to look for required DLLs to load into a
program. Hijacking DLL loads may be for the purpose of establishing persistence as well as
elevating privileges and/or evading restrictions on ﬁle execution.
.002 DLL Side-Loading Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by side-loading DLLs. Similar to DLL
Search Order Hijacking, side-loading involves hijacking which DLL a program loads. But rather
than just planting the DLL within the search order of a program then waiting for the victim
application to be invoked, adversaries may directly side-load their payloads by planting then
invoking a legitimate application that executes their payload(s).
.004 Dylib Hijacking Adversaries may execute their own payloads by placing a malicious dynamic library (dylib)
with an expected name in a path a victim application searches at runtime. The dynamic loader
will try to ﬁnd the dylibs based on the sequential order of the search paths. Paths to dylibs
may be preﬁxed with @rpath , which allows developers to use relative paths to specify an
array of search paths used at runtime based on the location of the executable. Additionally, if
weak linking is used, such as the LC\_LOAD\_WEAK\_DYLIB function, an application will still
execute even if an expected dylib is not present. Weak linking enables developers to run an
application on multiple macOS versions as new APIs are added.
.005 Executable Installer File
Permissions WeaknessAdversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the binaries used by an
installer. These processes may automatically execute speciﬁc binaries as part of their
functionality or to perform other actions. If the permissions on the ﬁle system directory
containing a target binary, or permissions on the binary itself, are improperly set, then the
target binary may be overwritten with another binary using user-level permissions and
executed by the original process. If the original process and thread are running under a higher
permissions level, then the replaced binary will also execute under higher-level permissions,
which could include SYSTEM.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 9/23ID Name Description
.006 Dynamic Linker Hijacking Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking environment variables the
dynamic linker uses to load shared libraries. During the execution preparation phase of a
program, the dynamic linker loads speciﬁed absolute paths of shared libraries from
environment variables and ﬁles, such as LD\_PRELOAD on Linux or DYLD\_INSERT\_LIBRARIES
on macOS. Libraries speciﬁed in environment variables are loaded ﬁrst, taking precedence
over system libraries with the same function name. These variables are often used by
developers to debug binaries without needing to recompile, deconﬂict mapped symbols, and
implement custom functions without changing the original library.
.007 Path Interception by PATH
Environment VariableAdversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking environment variables
used to load libraries. The PATH environment variable contains a list of directories (User and
System) that the OS searches sequentially through in search of the binary that was called
from a script or the command line.
.008 Path Interception by
Search Order HijackingAdversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the search order used to
load other programs. Because some programs do not call other programs using the full path,
adversaries may place their own ﬁle in the directory where the calling program is located,
causing the operating system to launch their malicious software at the request of the calling
program.
.009 Path Interception by
Unquoted PathAdversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking vulnerable ﬁle path
references. Adversaries can take advantage of paths that lack surrounding quotations by
placing an executable in a higher level directory within the path, so that Windows will choose
the adversary's executable to launch.
.010 Services File Permissions
WeaknessAdversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the binaries used by
services. Adversaries may use ﬂaws in the permissions of Windows services to replace the
binary that is executed upon service start. These service processes may automatically execute
speciﬁc binaries as part of their functionality or to perform other actions. If the permissions on
the ﬁle system directory containing a target binary, or permissions on the binary itself are
improperly set, then the target binary may be overwritten with another binary using user-level
permissions and executed by the original process. If the original process and thread are
running under a higher permissions level, then the replaced binary will also execute under
higher-level permissions, which could include SYSTEM.
.011 Services Registry
Permissions WeaknessAdversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the Registry entries used
by services. Adversaries may use ﬂaws in the permissions for Registry keys related to services
to redirect from the originally speciﬁed executable to one that they control, in order to launch
their own code when a service starts. Windows stores local service conﬁguration information
in the Registry under HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services . The information stored
under a service's Registry keys can be manipulated to modify a service's execution parameters
through tools such as the service controller, sc.exe, PowerShell, or Reg. Access to Registry keys
is controlled through access control lists and user permissions.
.012 COR\_PROFILER Adversaries may leverage the COR\_PROFILER environment variable to hijack the execution
ﬂow of programs that load the .NET CLR. The COR\_PROFILER is a .NET Framework feature
which allows developers to specify an unmanaged (or external of .NET) proﬁling DLL to be
loaded into each .NET process that loads the Common Language Runtime (CLR). These
proﬁlers are designed to monitor, troubleshoot, and debug managed code executed by the
.NET CLR.
.013 KernelCallbackTable Adversaries may abuse the KernelCallbackTable of a process to hijack its execution ﬂow in
order to run their own payloads. The KernelCallbackTable can be found in the Process
Environment Block (PEB) and is initialized to an array of graphic functions available to a GUI
process once user32.dll is loaded.
T1562 Impair Defenses Adversaries may maliciously modify components of a victim environment in order to hinder or
disable defensive mechanisms. This not only involves impairing preventative defenses, such
as ﬁrewalls and anti-virus, but also detection capabilities that defenders can use to audit
activity and identify malicious behavior. This may also span both native defenses as well as
supplemental capabilities installed by users and administrators.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 10/23ID Name Description
.001 Disable or Modify Tools Adversaries may modify and/or disable security tools to avoid possible detection of their
malware/tools and activities. This may take many forms, such as killing security software
processes or services, modifying / deleting Registry keys or conﬁguration ﬁles so that tools do
not operate properly, or other methods to interfere with security tools scanning or reporting
information. Adversaries may also disable updates to prevent the latest security patches from
reaching tools on victim systems.
.002 Disable Windows Event
LoggingAdversaries may disable Windows event logging to limit data that can be leveraged for
detections and audits. Windows event logs record user and system activity such as login
attempts, process creation, and much more. This data is used by security tools and analysts
to generate detections.
.003 Impair Command History
LoggingAdversaries may impair command history logging to hide commands they run on a
compromised system. Various command interpreters keep track of the commands users type
in their terminal so that users can retrace what they've done.
.004 Disable or Modify System
FirewallAdversaries may disable or modify system ﬁrewalls in order to bypass controls limiting
network usage. Changes could be disabling the entire mechanism as well as adding, deleting,
or modifying particular rules. This can be done numerous ways depending on the operating
system, including via command-line, editing Windows Registry keys, and Windows Control
Panel.
.006 Indicator Blocking An adversary may attempt to block indicators or events typically captured by sensors from
being gathered and analyzed. This could include maliciously redirecting or even disabling
host-based sensors, such as Event Tracing for Windows (ETW), by tampering settings that
control the collection and ﬂow of event telemetry. These settings may be stored on the system
in conﬁguration ﬁles and/or in the Registry as well as being accessible via administrative
utilities such as PowerShell or Windows Management Instrumentation.
.007 Disable or Modify Cloud
FirewallAdversaries may disable or modify a ﬁrewall within a cloud environment to bypass controls
that limit access to cloud resources. Cloud ﬁrewalls are separate from system ﬁrewalls that
are described in Disable or Modify System Firewall.
.008 Disable or Modify Cloud
LogsAn adversary may disable or modify cloud logging capabilities and integrations to limit what
data is collected on their activities and avoid detection. Cloud environments allow for
collection and analysis of audit and application logs that provide insight into what activities a
user does within the environment. If an adversary has suﬃcient permissions, they can disable
or modify logging to avoid detection of their activities.
.009 Safe Mode Boot Adversaries may abuse Windows safe mode to disable endpoint defenses. Safe mode starts
up the Windows operating system with a limited set of drivers and services. Third-party
security software such as endpoint detection and response (EDR) tools may not start after
booting Windows in safe mode. There are two versions of safe mode: Safe Mode and Safe
Mode with Networking. It is possible to start additional services after a safe mode boot.
.010 Downgrade Attack Adversaries may downgrade or use a version of system features that may be outdated,
vulnerable, and/or does not support updated security controls. Downgrade attacks typically
take advantage of a system’s backward compatibility to force it into less secure modes of
operation.
.011 Spoof Security Alerting Adversaries may spoof security alerting from tools, presenting false evidence to impair
defenders’ awareness of malicious activity. Messages produced by defensive tools contain
information about potential security events as well as the functioning status of security
software and the system. Security reporting messages are important for monitoring the
normal operation of a system and identifying important events that can signal a security
incident.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 11/23ID Name Description
.012 Disable or Modify Linux
Audit SystemAdversaries may disable or modify the Linux audit system to hide malicious activity and avoid
detection. Linux admins use the Linux Audit system to track security-relevant information on a
system. The Linux Audit system operates at the kernel-level and maintains event logs on
application and system activity such as process, network, ﬁle, and login events based on pre-
conﬁgured rules.
T1656 Impersonation Adversaries may impersonate a trusted person or organization in order to persuade and trick a
target into performing some action on their behalf. For example, adversaries may
communicate with victims (via Phishing for Information, Phishing, or Internal Spearphishing)
while impersonating a known sender such as an executive, colleague, or third-party vendor.
Established trust can then be leveraged to accomplish an adversary’s ultimate goals, possibly
against multiple victims.
T1070 Indicator Removal Adversaries may delete or modify artifacts generated within systems to remove evidence of
their presence or hinder defenses. Various artifacts may be created by an adversary or
something that can be attributed to an adversary’s actions. Typically these artifacts are used
as defensive indicators related to monitored events, such as strings from downloaded ﬁles,
logs that are generated from user actions, and other data analyzed by defenders. Location,
format, and type of artifact (such as command or login history) are often speciﬁc to each
platform.
.001 Clear Windows Event
LogsAdversaries may clear Windows Event Logs to hide the activity of an intrusion. Windows Event
Logs are a record of a computer's alerts and notiﬁcations. There are three system-deﬁned
sources of events: System, Application, and Security, with ﬁve event types: Error, Warning,
Information, Success Audit, and Failure Audit.
.002 Clear Linux or Mac
System LogsAdversaries may clear system logs to hide evidence of an intrusion. macOS and Linux both
keep track of system or user-initiated actions via system logs. The majority of native system
logging is stored under the /var/log/ directory. Subfolders in this directory categorize logs
by their related functions, such as:
.003 Clear Command History In addition to clearing system logs, an adversary may clear the command history of a
compromised account to conceal the actions undertaken during an intrusion. Various
command interpreters keep track of the commands users type in their terminal so that users
can retrace what they've done.
.004 File Deletion Adversaries may delete ﬁles left behind by the actions of their intrusion activity. Malware,
tools, or other non-native ﬁles dropped or created on a system by an adversary (ex: Ingress
Tool Transfer) may leave traces to indicate to what was done within a network and how.
Removal of these ﬁles can occur during an intrusion, or as part of a post-intrusion process to
minimize the adversary's footprint.
.005 Network Share
Connection RemovalAdversaries may remove share connections that are no longer useful in order to clean up
traces of their operation. Windows shared drive and SMB/Windows Admin Shares
connections can be removed when no longer needed. Net is an example utility that can be
used to remove network share connections with the net use \system\share /delete
command.
.006 Timestomp Adversaries may modify ﬁle time attributes to hide new or changes to existing ﬁles.
Timestomping is a technique that modiﬁes the timestamps of a ﬁle (the modify, access,
create, and change times), often to mimic ﬁles that are in the same folder. This is done, for
example, on ﬁles that have been modiﬁed or created by the adversary so that they do not
appear conspicuous to forensic investigators or ﬁle analysis tools.
.007 Clear Network Connection
History and
ConﬁgurationsAdversaries may clear or remove evidence of malicious network connections in order to clean
up traces of their operations. Conﬁguration settings as well as various artifacts that highlight
connection history may be created on a system and/or in application logs from behaviors that
require network connections, such as Remote Services or External Remote Services. Defenders
may use these artifacts to monitor or otherwise analyze network connections created by
adversaries.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 12/23ID Name Description
.008 Clear Mailbox Data Adversaries may modify mail and mail application data to remove evidence of their activity.
Email applications allow users and other programs to export and delete mailbox data via
command line tools or use of APIs. Mail application data can be emails, email metadata, or
logs generated by the application or operating system, such as export requests.
.009 Clear Persistence Adversaries may clear artifacts associated with previously established persistence on a host
system to remove evidence of their activity. This may involve various actions, such as
removing services, deleting executables, Modify Registry, Plist File Modiﬁcation, or other
methods of cleanup to prevent defenders from collecting evidence of their persistent presence.
Adversaries may also delete accounts previously created to maintain persistence (i.e. Create
Account).
T1202 Indirect Command
ExecutionAdversaries may abuse utilities that allow for command execution to bypass security
restrictions that limit the use of command-line interpreters. Various Windows utilities may be
used to execute commands, possibly without invoking cmd. For example, Forﬁles, the Program
Compatibility Assistant (pcalua.exe), components of the Windows Subsystem for Linux
(WSL), as well as other utilities may invoke the execution of programs and commands from a
Command and Scripting Interpreter, Run window, or via scripts.
T1036 Masquerading Adversaries may attempt to manipulate features of their artifacts to make them appear
legitimate or benign to users and/or security tools. Masquerading occurs when the name or
location of an object, legitimate or malicious, is manipulated or abused for the sake of
evading defenses and observation. This may include manipulating ﬁle metadata, tricking
users into misidentifying the ﬁle type, and giving legitimate task or service names.
.001 Invalid Code Signature Adversaries may attempt to mimic features of valid code signatures to increase the chance of
deceiving a user, analyst, or tool. Code signing provides a level of authenticity on a binary from
the developer and a guarantee that the binary has not been tampered with. Adversaries can
copy the metadata and signature information from a signed program, then use it as a
template for an unsigned program. Files with invalid code signatures will fail digital signature
validation checks, but they may appear more legitimate to users and security tools may
improperly handle these ﬁles.
.002 Right-to-Left Override Adversaries may abuse the right-to-left override (RTLO or RLO) character (U+202E) to disguise
a string and/or ﬁle name to make it appear benign. RTLO is a non-printing Unicode character
that causes the text that follows it to be displayed in reverse. For example, a Windows
screensaver executable named March 25 \u202Excod.scr will display as March 25
rcs.docx . A JavaScript ﬁle named photo\_high\_re\u202Egnp.js will be displayed as
photo\_high\_resj.png .
.003 Rename System Utilities Adversaries may rename legitimate system utilities to try to evade security mechanisms
concerning the usage of those utilities. Security monitoring and control mechanisms may be
in place for system utilities adversaries are capable of abusing. It may be possible to bypass
those security mechanisms by renaming the utility prior to utilization (ex: rename
rundll32.exe ). An alternative case occurs when a legitimate utility is copied or moved to a
different directory and renamed to avoid detections based on system utilities executing from
non-standard paths.
.004 Masquerade Task or
ServiceAdversaries may attempt to manipulate the name of a task or service to make it appear
legitimate or benign. Tasks/services executed by the Task Scheduler or systemd will typically
be given a name and/or description. Windows services will have a service name as well as a
display name. Many benign tasks and services exist that have commonly associated names.
Adversaries may give tasks or services names that are similar or identical to those of
legitimate ones.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 13/23ID Name Description
.005 Match Legitimate Name
or LocationAdversaries may match or approximate the name or location of legitimate ﬁles or resources
when naming/placing them. This is done for the sake of evading defenses and observation.
This may be done by placing an executable in a commonly trusted directory (ex: under
System32) or giving it the name of a legitimate, trusted program (ex: svchost.exe). In
containerized environments, this may also be done by creating a resource in a namespace that
matches the naming convention of a container pod or cluster. Alternatively, a ﬁle or container
image name given may be a close approximation to legitimate programs/images or
something innocuous.
.006 Space after Filename Adversaries can hide a program's true ﬁletype by changing the extension of a ﬁle. With certain
ﬁle types (speciﬁcally this does not work with .app extensions), appending a space to the end
of a ﬁlename will change how the ﬁle is processed by the operating system.
.007 Double File Extension Adversaries may abuse a double extension in the ﬁlename as a means of masquerading the
true ﬁle type. A ﬁle name may include a secondary ﬁle type extension that may cause only the
ﬁrst extension to be displayed (ex: File.txt.exe may render in some views as just
File.txt ). However, the second extension is the true ﬁle type that determines how the ﬁle is
opened and executed. The real ﬁle extension may be hidden by the operating system in the ﬁle
browser (ex: explorer.exe), as well as in any software conﬁgured using or similar to the
system’s policies.
.008 Masquerade File Type Adversaries may masquerade malicious payloads as legitimate ﬁles through changes to the
payload's formatting, including the ﬁle’s signature, extension, and contents. Various ﬁle types
have a typical standard format, including how they are encoded and organized. For example, a
ﬁle’s signature (also known as header or magic bytes) is the beginning bytes of a ﬁle and is
often used to identify the ﬁle’s type. For example, the header of a JPEG ﬁle, is 0xFF 0xD8 and
the ﬁle extension is either .JPE , .JPEG or .JPG .
.009 Break Process Trees An adversary may attempt to evade process tree-based analysis by modifying executed
malware's parent process ID (PPID). If endpoint protection software leverages the "parent-
child" relationship for detection, breaking this relationship could result in the adversary’s
behavior not being associated with previous process tree activity. On Unix-based systems
breaking this process tree is common practice for administrators to execute software using
scripts and programs.
T1556 Modify Authentication
ProcessAdversaries may modify authentication mechanisms and processes to access user credentials
or enable otherwise unwarranted access to accounts. The authentication process is handled
by mechanisms, such as the Local Security Authentication Server (LSASS) process and the
Security Accounts Manager (SAM) on Windows, pluggable authentication modules (PAM) on
Unix-based systems, and authorization plugins on MacOS systems, responsible for gathering,
storing, and validating credentials. By modifying an authentication process, an adversary may
be able to authenticate to a service or system without using Valid Accounts.
.001 Domain Controller
AuthenticationAdversaries may patch the authentication process on a domain controller to bypass the
typical authentication mechanisms and enable access to accounts.
.002 Password Filter DLL Adversaries may register malicious password ﬁlter dynamic link libraries (DLLs) into the
authentication process to acquire user credentials as they are validated.
.003 Pluggable Authentication
ModulesAdversaries may modify pluggable authentication modules (PAM) to access user credentials
or enable otherwise unwarranted access to accounts. PAM is a modular system of
conﬁguration ﬁles, libraries, and executable ﬁles which guide authentication for many
services. The most common authentication module is pam\_unix.so , which retrieves, sets, and
veriﬁes account authentication information in /etc/passwd and /etc/shadow .
.004 Network Device
AuthenticationAdversaries may use Patch System Image to hard code a password in the operating system,
thus bypassing of native authentication mechanisms for local accounts on network devices.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 14/23ID Name Description
.005 Reversible Encryption An adversary may abuse Active Directory authentication encryption properties to gain access
to credentials on Windows systems. The AllowReversiblePasswordEncryption property
speciﬁes whether reversible password encryption for an account is enabled or disabled. By
default this property is disabled (instead storing user credentials as the output of one-way
hashing functions) and should not be enabled unless legacy or other software require it.
.006 Multi-Factor
AuthenticationAdversaries may disable or modify multi-factor authentication (MFA) mechanisms to enable
persistent access to compromised accounts.
.007 Hybrid Identity Adversaries may patch, modify, or otherwise backdoor cloud authentication processes that are
tied to on-premises user identities in order to bypass typical authentication mechanisms,
access credentials, and enable persistent access to accounts.
.008 Network Provider DLL Adversaries may register malicious network provider dynamic link libraries (DLLs) to capture
cleartext user credentials during the authentication process. Network provider DLLs allow
Windows to interface with speciﬁc network protocols and can also support add-on credential
management functions. During the logon process, Winlogon (the interactive logon module)
sends credentials to the local mpnotify.exe process via RPC. The mpnotify.exe process
then shares the credentials in cleartext with registered credential managers when notifying
that a logon event is happening.
T1578 Modify Cloud Compute
InfrastructureAn adversary may attempt to modify a cloud account's compute service infrastructure to
evade defenses. A modiﬁcation to the compute service infrastructure can include the creation,
deletion, or modiﬁcation of one or more components such as compute instances, virtual
machines, and snapshots.
.001 Create Snapshot An adversary may create a snapshot or data backup within a cloud account to evade
defenses. A snapshot is a point-in-time copy of an existing cloud compute component such as
a virtual machine (VM), virtual hard drive, or volume. An adversary may leverage permissions
to create a snapshot in order to bypass restrictions that prevent access to existing compute
service infrastructure, unlike in Revert Cloud Instance where an adversary may revert to a
snapshot to evade detection and remove evidence of their presence.
.002 Create Cloud Instance An adversary may create a new instance or virtual machine (VM) within the compute service
of a cloud account to evade defenses. Creating a new instance may allow an adversary to
bypass ﬁrewall rules and permissions that exist on instances currently residing within an
account. An adversary may Create Snapshot of one or more volumes in an account, create a
new instance, mount the snapshots, and then apply a less restrictive security policy to collect
Data from Local System or for Remote Data Staging.
.003 Delete Cloud Instance An adversary may delete a cloud instance after they have performed malicious activities in an
attempt to evade detection and remove evidence of their presence. Deleting an instance or
virtual machine can remove valuable forensic artifacts and other evidence of suspicious
behavior if the instance is not recoverable.
.004 Revert Cloud Instance An adversary may revert changes made to a cloud instance after they have performed
malicious activities in attempt to evade detection and remove evidence of their presence. In
highly virtualized environments, such as cloud-based infrastructure, this may be accomplished
by restoring virtual machine (VM) or data storage snapshots through the cloud management
dashboard or cloud APIs.
.005 Modify Cloud Compute
ConﬁgurationsAdversaries may modify settings that directly affect the size, locations, and resources
available to cloud compute infrastructure in order to evade defenses. These settings may
include service quotas, subscription associations, tenant-wide policies, or other conﬁgurations
that impact available compute. Such modiﬁcations may allow adversaries to abuse the
victim’s compute resources to achieve their goals, potentially without affecting the execution
of running instances and/or revealing their activities to the victim.
T1112 Modify Registry Adversaries may interact with the Windows Registry to hide conﬁguration information within
Registry keys, remove information as part of cleaning up, or as part of other techniques to aid
in persistence and execution.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 15/23ID Name Description
T1601 Modify System Image Adversaries may make changes to the operating system of embedded network devices to
weaken defenses and provide new capabilities for themselves. On such devices, the operating
systems are typically monolithic and most of the device functionality and capabilities are
contained within a single ﬁle.
.001 Patch System Image Adversaries may modify the operating system of a network device to introduce new
capabilities or weaken existing defenses. Some network devices are built with a monolithic
architecture, where the entire operating system and most of the functionality of the device is
contained within a single ﬁle. Adversaries may change this ﬁle in storage, to be loaded in a
future boot, or in memory during runtime.
.002 Downgrade System ImageAdversaries may install an older version of the operating system of a network device to
weaken security. Older operating system versions on network devices often have weaker
encryption ciphers and, in general, fewer/less updated defensive features.
T1599 Network Boundary
BridgingAdversaries may bridge network boundaries by compromising perimeter network devices or
internal devices responsible for network segmentation. Breaching these devices may enable
an adversary to bypass restrictions on traﬃc routing that otherwise separate trusted and
untrusted networks.
.001 Network Address
Translation TraversalAdversaries may bridge network boundaries by modifying a network device’s Network Address
Translation (NAT) conﬁguration. Malicious modiﬁcations to NAT may enable an adversary to
bypass restrictions on traﬃc routing that otherwise separate trusted and untrusted networks.
T1027 Obfuscated Files or
InformationAdversaries may attempt to make an executable or ﬁle diﬃcult to discover or analyze by
encrypting, encoding, or otherwise obfuscating its contents on the system or in transit. This is
common behavior that can be used across different platforms and the network to evade
defenses.
.001 Binary Padding Adversaries may use binary padding to add junk data and change the on-disk representation
of malware. This can be done without affecting the functionality or behavior of a binary, but
can increase the size of the binary beyond what some security tools are capable of handling
due to ﬁle size limitations.
.002 Software Packing Adversaries may perform software packing or virtual machine software protection to conceal
their code. Software packing is a method of compressing or encrypting an executable.
Packing an executable changes the ﬁle signature in an attempt to avoid signature-based
detection. Most decompression techniques decompress the executable code in memory.
Virtual machine software protection translates an executable's original code into a special
format that only a special virtual machine can run. A virtual machine is then called to run this
code.
.003 Steganography Adversaries may use steganography techniques in order to prevent the detection of hidden
information. Steganographic techniques can be used to hide data in digital media such as
images, audio tracks, video clips, or text ﬁles.
.004 Compile After Delivery Adversaries may attempt to make payloads diﬃcult to discover and analyze by delivering ﬁles
to victims as uncompiled code. Text-based source code ﬁles may subvert analysis and
scrutiny from protections targeting executables/binaries. These payloads will need to be
compiled before execution; typically via native utilities such as csc.exe or GCC/MinGW.
.005 Indicator Removal from
ToolsAdversaries may remove indicators from tools if they believe their malicious tool was detected,
quarantined, or otherwise curtailed. They can modify the tool by removing the indicator and
using the updated version that is no longer detected by the target's defensive systems or
subsequent targets that may use similar systems.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 16/23ID Name Description
.006 HTML Smuggling Adversaries may smuggle data and ﬁles past content ﬁlters by hiding malicious payloads
inside of seemingly benign HTML ﬁles. HTML documents can store large binary objects
known as JavaScript Blobs (immutable data that represents raw bytes) that can later be
constructed into ﬁle-like objects. Data may also be stored in Data URLs, which enable
embedding media type or MIME ﬁles inline of HTML documents. HTML5 also introduced a
download attribute that may be used to initiate ﬁle downloads.
.007 Dynamic API Resolution Adversaries may obfuscate then dynamically resolve API functions called by their malware in
order to conceal malicious functionalities and impair defensive analysis. Malware commonly
uses various Native API functions provided by the OS to perform various tasks such as those
involving processes, ﬁles, and other system artifacts.
.008 Stripped Payloads Adversaries may attempt to make a payload diﬃcult to analyze by removing symbols, strings,
and other human readable information. Scripts and executables may contain variables names
and other strings that help developers document code functionality. Symbols are often created
by an operating system’s linker when executable payloads are compiled. Reverse engineers
use these symbols and strings to analyze code and to identify functionality in payloads.
.009 Embedded Payloads Adversaries may embed payloads within other ﬁles to conceal malicious content from
defenses. Otherwise seemingly benign ﬁles (such as scripts and executables) may be abused
to carry and obfuscate malicious payloads and content. In some cases, embedded payloads
may also enable adversaries to Subvert Trust Controls by not impacting execution controls
such as digital signatures and notarization tickets.
.010 Command Obfuscation Adversaries may obfuscate content during command execution to impede detection.
Command-line obfuscation is a method of making strings and patterns within commands and
scripts more diﬃcult to signature and analyze. This type of obfuscation can be included
within commands executed by delivered payloads (e.g., Phishing and Drive-by Compromise) or
interactively via Command and Scripting Interpreter.
.011 Fileless Storage Adversaries may store data in "ﬁleless" formats to conceal malicious activity from defenses.
Fileless storage can be broadly deﬁned as any format other than a ﬁle. Common examples of
non-volatile ﬁleless storage include the Windows Registry, event logs, or WMI repository.
.012 LNK Icon Smuggling Adversaries may smuggle commands to download malicious payloads past content ﬁlters by
hiding them within otherwise seemingly benign windows shortcut ﬁles. Windows shortcut ﬁles
(.LNK) include many metadata ﬁelds, including an icon location ﬁeld (also known as the
IconEnvironmentDataBlock ) designed to specify the path to an icon ﬁle that is to be
displayed for the LNK ﬁle within a host directory.
T1647 Plist File Modiﬁcation Adversaries may modify property list ﬁles (plist ﬁles) to enable other malicious activity, while
also potentially evading and bypassing system defenses. macOS applications use plist ﬁles,
such as the info.plist ﬁle, to store properties and conﬁguration settings that inform the
operating system how to handle the application at runtime. Plist ﬁles are structured metadata
in key-value pairs formatted in XML based on Apple's Core Foundation DTD. Plist ﬁles can be
saved in text or binary format.
T1542 Pre-OS Boot Adversaries may abuse Pre-OS Boot mechanisms as a way to establish persistence on a
system. During the booting process of a computer, ﬁrmware and various startup services are
loaded before the operating system. These programs control ﬂow of execution before the
operating system takes control.
.001 System Firmware Adversaries may modify system ﬁrmware to persist on systems.The BIOS (Basic Input/Output
System) and The Uniﬁed Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) or Extensible Firmware Interface
(EFI) are examples of system ﬁrmware that operate as the software interface between the
operating system and hardware of a computer.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 17/23ID Name Description
.002 Component Firmware Adversaries may modify component ﬁrmware to persist on systems. Some adversaries may
employ sophisticated means to compromise computer components and install malicious
ﬁrmware that will execute adversary code outside of the operating system and main system
ﬁrmware or BIOS. This technique may be similar to System Firmware but conducted upon
other system components/devices that may not have the same capability or level of integrity
checking.
.003 Bootkit Adversaries may use bootkits to persist on systems. Bootkits reside at a layer below the
operating system and may make it diﬃcult to perform full remediation unless an organization
suspects one was used and can act accordingly.
.004 ROMMONkit Adversaries may abuse the ROM Monitor (ROMMON) by loading an unauthorized ﬁrmware
with adversary code to provide persistent access and manipulate device behavior that is
diﬃcult to detect.
.005 TFTP Boot Adversaries may abuse netbooting to load an unauthorized network device operating system
from a Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP) server. TFTP boot (netbooting) is commonly used
by network administrators to load conﬁguration-controlled network device images from a
centralized management server. Netbooting is one option in the boot sequence and can be
used to centralize, manage, and control device images.
T1055 Process Injection Adversaries may inject code into processes in order to evade process-based defenses as well
as possibly elevate privileges. Process injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the
address space of a separate live process. Running code in the context of another process may
allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated
privileges. Execution via process injection may also evade detection from security products
since the execution is masked under a legitimate process.
.001 Dynamic-link Library
InjectionAdversaries may inject dynamic-link libraries (DLLs) into processes in order to evade process-
based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. DLL injection is a method of executing
arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process.
.002 Portable Executable
InjectionAdversaries may inject portable executables (PE) into processes in order to evade process-
based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. PE injection is a method of executing
arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process.
.003 Thread Execution
HijackingAdversaries may inject malicious code into hijacked processes in order to evade process-
based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Thread Execution Hijacking is a method
of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process.
.004 Asynchronous Procedure
CallAdversaries may inject malicious code into processes via the asynchronous procedure call
(APC) queue in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges.
APC injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live
process.
.005 Thread Local Storage Adversaries may inject malicious code into processes via thread local storage (TLS) callbacks
in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. TLS callback
injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live
process.
.008 Ptrace System Calls Adversaries may inject malicious code into processes via ptrace (process trace) system calls
in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Ptrace system
call injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live
process.
.009 Proc Memory Adversaries may inject malicious code into processes via the /proc ﬁlesystem in order to
evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Proc memory injection is
a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 18/23ID Name Description
.011 Extra Window Memory
InjectionAdversaries may inject malicious code into process via Extra Window Memory (EWM) in order
to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. EWM injection is a
method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process.
.012 Process Hollowing Adversaries may inject malicious code into suspended and hollowed processes in order to
evade process-based defenses. Process hollowing is a method of executing arbitrary code in
the address space of a separate live process.
.013 Process Doppelgänging Adversaries may inject malicious code into process via process doppelgänging in order to
evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Process doppelgänging
is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process.
.014 VDSO Hijacking Adversaries may inject malicious code into processes via VDSO hijacking in order to evade
process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Virtual dynamic shared object
(vdso) hijacking is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate
live process.
.015 ListPlanting Adversaries may abuse list-view controls to inject malicious code into hijacked processes in
order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. ListPlanting is a
method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. Code
executed via ListPlanting may also evade detection from security products since the execution
is masked under a legitimate process.
T1620 Reﬂective Code Loading Adversaries may reﬂectively load code into a process in order to conceal the execution of
malicious payloads. Reﬂective loading involves allocating then executing payloads directly
within the memory of the process, vice creating a thread or process backed by a ﬁle path on
disk. Reﬂectively loaded payloads may be compiled binaries, anonymous ﬁles (only present in
RAM), or just snubs of ﬁleless executable code (ex: position-independent shellcode).
T1207 Rogue Domain Controller Adversaries may register a rogue Domain Controller to enable manipulation of Active Directory
data. DCShadow may be used to create a rogue Domain Controller (DC). DCShadow is a
method of manipulating Active Directory (AD) data, including objects and schemas, by
registering (or reusing an inactive registration) and simulating the behavior of a DC. Once
registered, a rogue DC may be able to inject and replicate changes into AD infrastructure for
any domain object, including credentials and keys.
T1014 Rootkit Adversaries may use rootkits to hide the presence of programs, ﬁles, network connections,
services, drivers, and other system components. Rootkits are programs that hide the existence
of malware by intercepting/hooking and modifying operating system API calls that supply
system information.
T1553 Subvert Trust Controls Adversaries may undermine security controls that will either warn users of untrusted activity or
prevent execution of untrusted programs. Operating systems and security products may
contain mechanisms to identify programs or websites as possessing some level of trust.
Examples of such features would include a program being allowed to run because it is signed
by a valid code signing certiﬁcate, a program prompting the user with a warning because it
has an attribute set from being downloaded from the Internet, or getting an indication that you
are about to connect to an untrusted site.
.001 Gatekeeper Bypass Adversaries may modify ﬁle attributes and subvert Gatekeeper functionality to evade user
prompts and execute untrusted programs. Gatekeeper is a set of technologies that act as layer
of Apple’s security model to ensure only trusted applications are executed on a host.
Gatekeeper was built on top of File Quarantine in Snow Leopard (10.6, 2009) and has grown
to include Code Signing, security policy compliance, Notarization, and more. Gatekeeper also
treats applications running for the ﬁrst time differently than reopened applications.
.002 Code Signing Adversaries may create, acquire, or steal code signing materials to sign their malware or tools.
Code signing provides a level of authenticity on a binary from the developer and a guarantee
that the binary has not been tampered with. The certiﬁcates used during an operation may be
created, acquired, or stolen by the adversary. Unlike Invalid Code Signature, this activity will
result in a valid signature.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 19/23ID Name Description
.003 SIP and Trust Provider
HijackingAdversaries may tamper with SIP and trust provider components to mislead the operating
system and application control tools when conducting signature validation checks. In user
mode, Windows Authenticode digital signatures are used to verify a ﬁle's origin and integrity,
variables that may be used to establish trust in signed code (ex: a driver with a valid Microsoft
signature may be handled as safe). The signature validation process is handled via the
WinVerifyTrust application programming interface (API) function, which accepts an inquiry
and coordinates with the appropriate trust provider, which is responsible for validating
parameters of a signature.
.004 Install Root Certiﬁcate Adversaries may install a root certiﬁcate on a compromised system to avoid warnings when
connecting to adversary controlled web servers. Root certiﬁcates are used in public key
cryptography to identify a root certiﬁcate authority (CA). When a root certiﬁcate is installed, the
system or application will trust certiﬁcates in the root's chain of trust that have been signed by
the root certiﬁcate. Certiﬁcates are commonly used for establishing secure TLS/SSL
communications within a web browser. When a user attempts to browse a website that
presents a certiﬁcate that is not trusted an error message will be displayed to warn the user of
the security risk. Depending on the security settings, the browser may not allow the user to
establish a connection to the website.
.005 Mark-of-the-Web Bypass Adversaries may abuse speciﬁc ﬁle formats to subvert Mark-of-the-Web (MOTW) controls. In
Windows, when ﬁles are downloaded from the Internet, they are tagged with a hidden NTFS
Alternate Data Stream (ADS) named Zone.Identifier with a speciﬁc value known as the
MOTW. Files that are tagged with MOTW are protected and cannot perform certain actions.
For example, starting in MS Oﬃce 10, if a MS Oﬃce ﬁle has the MOTW, it will open in
Protected View. Executables tagged with the MOTW will be processed by Windows Defender
SmartScreen that compares ﬁles with an allowlist of well-known executables. If the ﬁle is not
known/trusted, SmartScreen will prevent the execution and warn the user not to run it.
.006 Code Signing Policy
ModiﬁcationAdversaries may modify code signing policies to enable execution of unsigned or self-signed
code. Code signing provides a level of authenticity on a program from a developer and a
guarantee that the program has not been tampered with. Security controls can include
enforcement mechanisms to ensure that only valid, signed code can be run on an operating
system.
T1218 System Binary Proxy
ExecutionAdversaries may bypass process and/or signature-based defenses by proxying execution of
malicious content with signed, or otherwise trusted, binaries. Binaries used in this technique
are often Microsoft-signed ﬁles, indicating that they have been either downloaded from
Microsoft or are already native in the operating system. Binaries signed with trusted digital
certiﬁcates can typically execute on Windows systems protected by digital signature
validation. Several Microsoft signed binaries that are default on Windows installations can be
used to proxy execution of other ﬁles or commands.
.001 Compiled HTML File Adversaries may abuse Compiled HTML ﬁles (.chm) to conceal malicious code. CHM ﬁles are
commonly distributed as part of the Microsoft HTML Help system. CHM ﬁles are compressed
compilations of various content such as HTML documents, images, and scripting/web related
programming languages such VBA, JScript, Java, and ActiveX. CHM content is displayed
using underlying components of the Internet Explorer browser loaded by the HTML Help
executable program (hh.exe).
.002 Control Panel Adversaries may abuse control.exe to proxy execution of malicious payloads. The Windows
Control Panel process binary (control.exe) handles execution of Control Panel items, which are
utilities that allow users to view and adjust computer settings.
.003 CMSTP Adversaries may abuse CMSTP to proxy execution of malicious code. The Microsoft
Connection Manager Proﬁle Installer (CMSTP.exe) is a command-line program used to install
Connection Manager service proﬁles. CMSTP.exe accepts an installation information ﬁle (INF)
as a parameter and installs a service proﬁle leveraged for remote access connections.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 20/23ID Name Description
.004 InstallUtil Adversaries may use InstallUtil to proxy execution of code through a trusted Windows utility.
InstallUtil is a command-line utility that allows for installation and uninstallation of resources
by executing speciﬁc installer components speciﬁed in .NET binaries. The InstallUtil binary
may also be digitally signed by Microsoft and located in the .NET directories on a Windows
system: C:\Windows\Microsoft.NET\Framework\v \InstallUtil.exe and
C:\Windows\Microsoft.NET\Framework64\v \InstallUtil.exe .
.005 Mshta Adversaries may abuse mshta.exe to proxy execution of malicious .hta ﬁles and Javascript or
VBScript through a trusted Windows utility. There are several examples of different types of
threats leveraging mshta.exe during initial compromise and for execution of code
.007 Msiexec Adversaries may abuse msiexec.exe to proxy execution of malicious payloads. Msiexec.exe is
the command-line utility for the Windows Installer and is thus commonly associated with
executing installation packages (.msi). The Msiexec.exe binary may also be digitally signed by
Microsoft.
.008 Odbcconf Adversaries may abuse odbcconf.exe to proxy execution of malicious payloads. Odbcconf.exe
is a Windows utility that allows you to conﬁgure Open Database Connectivity (ODBC) drivers
and data source names. The Odbcconf.exe binary may be digitally signed by Microsoft.
.009 Regsvcs/Regasm Adversaries may abuse Regsvcs and Regasm to proxy execution of code through a trusted
Windows utility. Regsvcs and Regasm are Windows command-line utilities that are used to
register .NET Component Object Model (COM) assemblies. Both are binaries that may be
digitally signed by Microsoft.
.010 Regsvr32 Adversaries may abuse Regsvr32.exe to proxy execution of malicious code. Regsvr32.exe is a
command-line program used to register and unregister object linking and embedding controls,
including dynamic link libraries (DLLs), on Windows systems. The Regsvr32.exe binary may
also be signed by Microsoft.
.011 Rundll32 Adversaries may abuse rundll32.exe to proxy execution of malicious code. Using rundll32.exe,
vice executing directly (i.e. Shared Modules), may avoid triggering security tools that may not
monitor execution of the rundll32.exe process because of allowlists or false positives from
normal operations. Rundll32.exe is commonly associated with executing DLL payloads (ex:
rundll32.exe {DLLname, DLLfunction} ).
.012 Verclsid Adversaries may abuse verclsid.exe to proxy execution of malicious code. Verclsid.exe is
known as the Extension CLSID Veriﬁcation Host and is responsible for verifying each shell
extension before they are used by Windows Explorer or the Windows Shell.
.013 Mavinject Adversaries may abuse mavinject.exe to proxy execution of malicious code. Mavinject.exe is
the Microsoft Application Virtualization Injector, a Windows utility that can inject code into
external processes as part of Microsoft Application Virtualization (App-V).
.014 MMC Adversaries may abuse mmc.exe to proxy execution of malicious .msc ﬁles. Microsoft
Management Console (MMC) is a binary that may be signed by Microsoft and is used in
several ways in either its GUI or in a command prompt. MMC can be used to create, open, and
save custom consoles that contain administrative tools created by Microsoft, called snap-ins.
These snap-ins may be used to manage Windows systems locally or remotely. MMC can also
be used to open Microsoft created .msc ﬁles to manage system conﬁguration.
T1216 System Script Proxy
ExecutionAdversaries may use trusted scripts, often signed with certiﬁcates, to proxy the execution of
malicious ﬁles. Several Microsoft signed scripts that have been downloaded from Microsoft or
are default on Windows installations can be used to proxy execution of other ﬁles. This
behavior may be abused by adversaries to execute malicious ﬁles that could bypass
application control and signature validation on systems.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 21/23ID Name Description
.001 PubPrn Adversaries may use PubPrn to proxy execution of malicious remote ﬁles. PubPrn.vbs is a
Visual Basic script that publishes a printer to Active Directory Domain Services. The script may
be signed by Microsoft and is commonly executed through the Windows Command Shell via
Cscript.exe . For example, the following code publishes a printer within the speciﬁed
domain: cscript pubprn Printer1 LDAP://CN=Container1,DC=Domain1,DC=Com .
T1221 Template Injection Adversaries may create or modify references in user document templates to conceal malicious
code or force authentication attempts. For example, Microsoft’s Oﬃce Open XML (OOX ML)
speciﬁcation deﬁnes an XML-based format for Oﬃce documents (.docx, xlsx, .pptx) to replace
older binary formats (.doc, .xls, .ppt). OOX ML ﬁles are packed together ZIP archives
compromised of various XML ﬁles, referred to as parts, containing properties that collectively
deﬁne how a document is rendered.
T1205 Traﬃc Signaling Adversaries may use traﬃc signaling to hide open ports or other malicious functionality used
for persistence or command and control. Traﬃc signaling involves the use of a magic value or
sequence that must be sent to a system to trigger a special response, such as opening a
closed port or executing a malicious task. This may take the form of sending a series of
packets with certain characteristics before a port will be opened that the adversary can use for
command and control. Usually this series of packets consists of attempted connections to a
predeﬁned sequence of closed ports (i.e. Port Knocking), but can involve unusual ﬂags,
speciﬁc strings, or other unique characteristics. After the sequence is completed, opening a
port may be accomplished by the host-based ﬁrewall, but could also be implemented by
custom software.
.001 Port Knocking Adversaries may use port knocking to hide open ports used for persistence or command and
control. To enable a port, an adversary sends a series of attempted connections to a
predeﬁned sequence of closed ports. After the sequence is completed, opening a port is often
accomplished by the host based ﬁrewall, but could also be implemented by custom software.
.002 Socket Filters Adversaries may attach ﬁlters to a network socket to monitor then activate backdoors used for
persistence or command and control. With elevated permissions, adversaries can use features
such as the libpcap library to open sockets and install ﬁlters to allow or disallow certain
types of data to come through the socket. The ﬁlter may apply to all traﬃc passing through
the speciﬁed network interface (or every interface if not speciﬁed). When the network interface
receives a packet matching the ﬁlter criteria, additional actions can be triggered on the host,
such as activation of a reverse shell.
T1127 Trusted Developer Utilities
Proxy ExecutionAdversaries may take advantage of trusted developer utilities to proxy execution of malicious
payloads. There are many utilities used for software development related tasks that can be
used to execute code in various forms to assist in development, debugging, and reverse
engineering. These utilities may often be signed with legitimate certiﬁcates that allow them to
execute on a system and proxy execution of malicious code through a trusted process that
effectively bypasses application control solutions.
.001 MSBuild Adversaries may use MSBuild to proxy execution of code through a trusted Windows utility.
MSBuild.exe (Microsoft Build Engine) is a software build platform used by Visual Studio. It
handles XML formatted project ﬁles that deﬁne requirements for loading and building various
platforms and conﬁgurations.
T1535 Unused/Unsupported
Cloud RegionsAdversaries may create cloud instances in unused geographic service regions in order to
evade detection. Access is usually obtained through compromising accounts used to manage
cloud infrastructure.
T1550 Use Alternate
Authentication MaterialAdversaries may use alternate authentication material, such as password hashes, Kerberos
tickets, and application access tokens, in order to move laterally within an environment and
bypass normal system access controls.
.001 Application Access Token Adversaries may use stolen application access tokens to bypass the typical authentication
process and access restricted accounts, information, or services on remote systems. These
tokens are typically stolen from users or services and used in lieu of login credentials.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 22/23ID Name Description
.002 Pass the Hash Adversaries may "pass the hash" using stolen password hashes to move laterally within an
environment, bypassing normal system access controls. Pass the hash (PtH) is a method of
authenticating as a user without having access to the user's cleartext password. This method
bypasses standard authentication steps that require a cleartext password, moving directly into
the portion of the authentication that uses the password hash.
.003 Pass the Ticket Adversaries may "pass the ticket" using stolen Kerberos tickets to move laterally within an
environment, bypassing normal system access controls. Pass the ticket (PtT) is a method of
authenticating to a system using Kerberos tickets without having access to an account's
password. Kerberos authentication can be used as the ﬁrst step to lateral movement to a
remote system.
.004 Web Session Cookie Adversaries can use stolen session cookies to authenticate to web applications and services.
This technique bypasses some multi-factor authentication protocols since the session is
already authenticated.
T1078 Valid Accounts Adversaries may obtain and abuse credentials of existing accounts as a means of gaining
Initial Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Compromised credentials
may be used to bypass access controls placed on various resources on systems within the
network and may even be used for persistent access to remote systems and externally
available services, such as VPNs, Outlook Web Access, network devices, and remote desktop.
Compromised credentials may also grant an adversary increased privilege to speciﬁc systems
or access to restricted areas of the network. Adversaries may choose not to use malware or
tools in conjunction with the legitimate access those credentials provide to make it harder to
detect their presence.
.001 Default Accounts Adversaries may obtain and abuse credentials of a default account as a means of gaining
Initial Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Default accounts are
those that are built-into an OS, such as the Guest or Administrator accounts on Windows
systems. Default accounts also include default factory/provider set accounts on other types
of systems, software, or devices, including the root user account in AWS and the default
service account in Kubernetes.
.002 Domain Accounts Adversaries may obtain and abuse credentials of a domain account as a means of gaining
Initial Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Domain accounts are
those managed by Active Directory Domain Services where access and permissions are
conﬁgured across systems and services that are part of that domain. Domain accounts can
cover users, administrators, and services.
.003 Local Accounts Adversaries may obtain and abuse credentials of a local account as a means of gaining Initial
Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Local accounts are those
conﬁgured by an organization for use by users, remote support, services, or for administration
on a single system or service.
.004 Cloud Accounts Valid accounts in cloud environments may allow adversaries to perform actions to achieve
Initial Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Cloud accounts are those
created and conﬁgured by an organization for use by users, remote support, services, or for
administration of resources within a cloud service provider or SaaS application. Cloud
Accounts can exist solely in the cloud or be hybrid joined between on-premises systems and
the cloud through federation with other identity sources such as Windows Active Directory.
T1497 Virtualization/Sandbox
EvasionAdversaries may employ various means to detect and avoid virtualization and analysis
environments. This may include changing behaviors based on the results of checks for the
presence of artifacts indicative of a virtual machine environment (VME) or sandbox. If the
adversary detects a VME, they may alter their malware to disengage from the victim or conceal
the core functions of the implant. They may also search for VME artifacts before dropping
secondary or additional payloads. Adversaries may use the information learned from
Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Defense Evasion, Tactic TA0005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0005/ 23/23ID Name Description
.001 System Checks Adversaries may employ various system checks to detect and avoid virtualization and
analysis environments. This may include changing behaviors based on the results of checks
for the presence of artifacts indicative of a virtual machine environment (VME) or sandbox. If
the adversary detects a VME, they may alter their malware to disengage from the victim or
conceal the core functions of the implant. They may also search for VME artifacts before
dropping secondary or additional payloads. Adversaries may use the information learned from
Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors.
.002 User Activity Based
ChecksAdversaries may employ various user activity checks to detect and avoid virtualization and
analysis environments. This may include changing behaviors based on the results of checks
for the presence of artifacts indicative of a virtual machine environment (VME) or sandbox. If
the adversary detects a VME, they may alter their malware to disengage from the victim or
conceal the core functions of the implant. They may also search for VME artifacts before
dropping secondary or additional payloads. Adversaries may use the information learned from
Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors.
.003 Time Based Evasion Adversaries may employ various time-based methods to detect and avoid virtualization and
analysis environments. This may include enumerating time-based properties, such as uptime
or the system clock, as well as the use of timers or other triggers to avoid a virtual machine
environment (VME) or sandbox, speciﬁcally those that are automated or only operate for a
limited amount of time.
T1600 Weaken Encryption Adversaries may compromise a network device’s encryption capability in order to bypass
encryption that would otherwise protect data communications.
.001 Reduce Key Space Adversaries may reduce the level of effort required to decrypt data transmitted over the
network by reducing the cipher strength of encrypted communications.
.002 Disable Crypto Hardware Adversaries disable a network device’s dedicated hardware encryption, which may enable them
to leverage weaknesses in software encryption in order to reduce the effort involved in
collecting, manipulating, and exﬁltrating transmitted data.
T1220 XSL Script Processing Adversaries may bypass application control and obscure execution of code by embedding
scripts inside XSL ﬁles. Extensible Stylesheet Language (XSL) ﬁles are commonly used to
describe the processing and rendering of data within XML ﬁles. To support complex
operations, the XSL standard includes support for embedded scripting in various languages.