3/22/24, 3:40 PM Modify Authentication Process: Network Device Authentication, Sub-technique T1556.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1556/004/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:40 PM Modify Authentication Process: Network Device Authentication, Sub-technique T1556.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1556/004/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Modify Authentication Process>Network Device Authentication3/22/24, 3:40 PM Modify Authentication Process: Network Device Authentication, Sub-technique T1556.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1556/004/ 3/4Modify Authentication Process: Network Device
Authentication
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0519 SYNful
KnockSYNful Knock has the capability to add its own custom backdoor password when it modiﬁes the operating
system of the affected network device.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1032 Multi-factor
AuthenticationUse multi-factor authentication for user and privileged accounts. Most embedded network devices
support TACACS+ and/or RADIUS. Follow vendor prescribed best practices for hardening access
control. 
M1026 Privileged Account
ManagementRestrict administrator accounts to as few individuals as possible, following least privilege principles.
Prevent credential overlap across systems of administrator and privileged accounts, particularly
between network and non-network platforms, such as servers or endpoints.
Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0022 File File
ModiﬁcationMonitor for changes made to the checksum of the operating system ﬁle and verifying the
image of the operating system in memory. Detection of this behavior may be diﬃcult,
detection efforts may be focused on closely related adversary behaviors, such as Modify
System Image.Adversaries may use Patch System Image to hard code a password in the operating system, thus bypassing of native authentication
mechanisms for local accounts on network devices.
Modify System Image may include implanted code to the operating system for network devices to provide access for adversaries using a
speciﬁc password. The modiﬁcation includes a speciﬁc password which is implanted in the operating system image via the patch. Upon
authentication attempts, the inserted code will ﬁrst check to see if the user input is the password. If so, access is granted. Otherwise, the
implanted code will pass the credentials on for veriﬁcation of potentially valid credentials.Other sub-techniques of Modify Authentication Process (8)
[1]
Version PermalinkID: T1556.004
Sub-technique of:  T1556

Tactics: Credential Access, Defense Evasion, Persistence

Platforms: Network

Permissions Required: Administrator
Version: 2.0
Created: 19 October 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 14 December 2021
[1]
[2]
[3][4]3/22/24, 3:40 PM Modify Authentication Process: Network Device Authentication, Sub-technique T1556.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1556/004/ 4/4References
1. Bill Hau, Tony Lee, Josh Homan. (2015, September 15).
SYNful Knock - A Cisco router implant - Part I. Retrieved
October 19, 2020.
2. Cisco. (n.d.). Cisco IOS Software Integrity Assurance -
TACACS. Retrieved October 19, 2020.3. Cisco. (n.d.). Cisco IOS Software Integrity Assurance - Cisco
IOS Image File Veriﬁcation. Retrieved October 19, 2020.
4. Cisco. (n.d.). Cisco IOS Software Integrity Assurance - Cisco
IOS Run-Time Memory Integrity Veriﬁcation. Retrieved October
19, 2020.