3/22/24, 3:49 PM Remote Services: SMB/Windows Admin Shares, Sub-technique T1021.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/002/ 1/11Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:49 PM Remote Services: SMB/Windows Admin Shares, Sub-technique T1021.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/002/ 2/11Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Remote Services>SMB/Windows Admin Shares3/22/24, 3:49 PM Remote Services: SMB/Windows Admin Shares, Sub-technique T1021.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/002/ 3/11Remote Services: SMB/Windows Admin Shares
Adversaries may use Valid Accounts to interact with a remote network share using Server Message Block (SMB). The adversary may then
perform actions as the logged-on user.
SMB is a ﬁle, printer, and serial port sharing protocol for Windows machines on the same network or domain. Adversaries may use SMB to
interact with ﬁle shares, allowing them to move laterally throughout a network. Linux and macOS implementations of SMB typically use
Samba.
Windows systems have hidden network shares that are accessible only to administrators and provide the ability for remote ﬁle copy and
other administrative functions. Example network shares include C$, ADMIN$ , and IPC$ . Adversaries may use this technique in conjunction
with administrator-level Valid Accounts to remotely access a networked system over SMB, to interact with systems using remote procedure
calls (RPCs), transfer ﬁles, and run transferred binaries through remote Execution. Example execution techniques that rely on authenticated
sessions over SMB/RPC are Scheduled Task/Job, Service Execution, and Windows Management Instrumentation. Adversaries can also use
NTLM hashes to access administrator shares on systems with Pass the Hash and certain conﬁguration and patch levels.Other sub-techniques of Remote Services (8)
[1]
[2]
[3]
Version PermalinkID: T1021.002
Sub-technique of:  T1021

Tactic: Lateral Movement

Platforms: Windows

System Requirements: SMB enabled; Host/network ﬁrewalls not blocking SMB ports between source and destination; Use of domain
account in administrator group on remote system or default system admin account.
Version: 1.2
Created: 11 February 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 28 July 20233/22/24, 3:49 PM Remote Services: SMB/Windows Admin Shares, Sub-technique T1021.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/002/ 4/11Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
C0025 2016 Ukraine Electric
Power AttackDuring the 2016 Ukraine Electric Power Attack, Sandworm Team utilized net use to connect to
network shares.
S0504 Anchor Anchor can support windows execution via SMB shares.
G0007 APT28 APT28 has mapped network drives using Net and administrator credentials.
G0022 APT3 APT3 will copy ﬁles over to Windows Admin Shares (like ADMIN$) as part of lateral movement.
G0050 APT32 APT32 used Net to use Windows' hidden network shares to copy their tools to remote machines for
execution.
G0087 APT39 APT39 has used SMB for lateral movement.
G0096 APT41 APT41 has transferred implant ﬁles using Windows Admin Shares.
S0089 BlackEnergy BlackEnergy has run a plug-in on a victim to spread through the local network by using PsExec and
accessing admin shares.
G0108 Blue Mockingbird Blue Mockingbird has used Windows Explorer to manually copy malicious ﬁles to remote hosts over
SMB.
S1063 Brute Ratel C4 Brute Ratel C4 has the ability to use SMB to pivot in compromised networks.
G0114 Chimera Chimera has used Windows admin shares to move laterally.
S0154 Cobalt Strike Cobalt Strike can use Window admin shares (C$ and ADMIN$) for lateral movement.
S0608 Conﬁcker Conﬁcker variants spread through NetBIOS share propagation.
S0575 Conti Conti can spread via SMB and encrypts ﬁles on different hosts, potentially compromising an entire
network.
G0009 Deep Panda Deep Panda uses net.exe to connect to network shares using net use commands with compromised
credentials.
S0659 Diavol Diavol can spread throughout a network via SMB prior to encryption.
S0038 Duqu Adversaries can instruct Duqu to spread laterally by copying itself to shares it has enumerated and for
which it has obtained legitimate credentials (via keylogging or other means). The remote host is then
infected by using the compromised credentials to schedule a task on remote machines that executes
the malware.
S0367 Emotet Emotet has leveraged the Admin$, C$, and IPC$ shares for lateral movement. 
G1016 FIN13 FIN13 has leveraged SMB to move laterally within a compromised network via application servers
and SQL servers.
G0061 FIN8 FIN8 has attempted to map to C$ on enumerated hosts to test the scope of their current
credentials/context. FIN8 has also used smbexec from the Impacket suite for lateral movement.
G0117 Fox Kitten Fox Kitten has used valid accounts to access SMB shares.
S0698 HermeticWizard HermeticWizard can use a list of hardcoded credentials to to authenticate via NTLMSSP to the SMB
shares on remote systems.[4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]
[12]
[13][14][15]
[16][17]
[18][19]
[20]
[21][22]
[23]
[24]
[25]
[26][27]
[28]
[29][30]
[31]
[32]3/22/24, 3:49 PM Remote Services: SMB/Windows Admin Shares, Sub-technique T1021.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/002/ 5/11ID Name Description
G0004 Ke3chang Ke3chang actors have been known to copy ﬁles to the network shares of other computers to move
laterally.
S0236 Kwampirs Kwampirs copies itself over network shares to move laterally on a victim network.
G0032 Lazarus Group Lazarus Group malware SierraAlfa accesses the ADMIN$ share via SMB to conduct lateral movement.
S0532 Lucifer Lucifer can infect victims by brute forcing SMB.
G1009 Moses Staff Moses Staff has used batch scripts that can enable SMB on a compromised host.
S0039 Net Lateral movement can be done with Net through net use commands to connect to the on remote
systems.
S0056 Net Crawler Net Crawler uses Windows admin shares to establish authenticated sessions to remote systems over
SMB as part of lateral movement.
S0368 NotPetya NotPetya can use PsExec, which interacts with the ADMIN$ network share to execute commands on
remote systems.
S0365 Olympic Destroyer Olympic Destroyer uses PsExec to interact with the ADMIN$ network share to execute commands on
remote systems.
C0014 Operation Wocao During Operation Wocao, threat actors used Impacket's smbexec.py as well as accessing the C$ and
IPC$ shares to move laterally.
G0071 Orangeworm Orangeworm has copied its backdoor across open network shares, including ADMIN$, C$WINDOWS,
D$WINDOWS, and E$WINDOWS.
S0029 PsExec PsExec, a tool that has been used by adversaries, writes programs to the ADMIN$ network share to
execute commands on remote systems.
S0019 Regin The Regin malware platform can use Windows admin shares to move laterally.
S1073 Royal Royal can use SMB to connect to move laterally.
S0446 Ryuk Ryuk has used the C$ network share for lateral movement.
G0034 Sandworm Team Sandworm Team has copied payloads to the ADMIN$ share of remote systems and run net use to
connect to network shares.
S0140 Shamoon Shamoon accesses network share(s), enables share access to the target device, copies an executable
payload to the target system, and uses a Scheduled Task/Job to execute the malware.
C0024 SolarWinds
CompromiseDuring the SolarWinds Compromise, APT29 used administrative accounts to connect over SMB to
targeted users.
S0603 Stuxnet Stuxnet propagates to available network shares.
G0028 Threat Group-1314 Threat Group-1314 actors mapped network drives using net use .
G0010 Turla Turla used net use commands to connect to lateral systems within a network.
G0102 Wizard Spider Wizard Spider has used SMB to drop Cobalt Strike Beacon on a domain controller for lateral
movement.
S0672 Zox Zox has the ability to use SMB for communication.[33][34]
[35]
[36][37]
[38]
[39]
[40]
[41]
[42][43][44]
[45][44]
[46]
[35]
[44]
[47]
[48]
[49]
[4][50]
[51]
[52]
[53]
[54]
[55]
[56][57]
[58]3/22/24, 3:49 PM Remote Services: SMB/Windows Admin Shares, Sub-technique T1021.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/002/ 6/11ID Name Description
S0350 zwShell zwShell has been copied over network shares to move laterally.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1037 Filter Network Traﬃc Consider using the host ﬁrewall to restrict ﬁle sharing communications such as SMB. 
M1035 Limit Access to Resource
Over NetworkConsider disabling Windows administrative shares.
M1027 Password Policies Do not reuse local administrator account passwords across systems. Ensure password
complexity and uniqueness such that the passwords cannot be cracked or guessed.
M1026 Privileged Account
ManagementDeny remote use of local admin credentials to log into systems. Do not allow domain user
accounts to be in the local Administrators group multiple systems.[59]
[60]3/22/24, 3:49 PM Remote Services: SMB/Windows Admin Shares, Sub-technique T1021.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/002/ 7/11Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that connect to remote shares, such as Net,
on the command-line interface and Discovery techniques that could be used to ﬁnd
remotely accessible systems.
Note: Event ID 4104 (from the Microsoft-Windows-Powershell/Operational log) captures
Powershell script blocks, which can be analyzed and used to detect on potential
connections and writing to remote shares.
DS0028 Logon Session Logon Session
CreationMonitor for logon behavior (ex: EID 4624 Logon Type 3) using Valid Accounts to interact
with a remote network share using Server Message Block (SMB). The adversary may then
perform actions as the logged-on user. Ensure that proper logging of accounts used to
log into systems is turned on and centrally collected. Windows logging is able to collect
success/failure for accounts that may be used to move laterally and can be collected
using tools such as Windows Event Forwarding. 
DS0033 Network Share Network Share
AccessMonitor interactions with network shares, such as reads or ﬁle transfers, using Server
Message Block (SMB).[61]
[62][63]3/22/24, 3:49 PM Remote Services: SMB/Windows Admin Shares, Sub-technique T1021.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/002/ 8/11ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0029 Network TraﬃcNetwork
Connection
CreationMonitor for newly constructed network connections (typically over ports 139 or 445),
especially those that are sent or received by abnormal or untrusted hosts. Correlate these
network connections with remote login events and associated SMB-related activity such
as ﬁle transfers and remote process execution.
Note: Event ID is for Zeek but can also be implemented in other Network Analysis
Frameworks by parsing & decoding captured SMB2 network traﬃc. Preference would be
to detect smb2\_write\_response event (instead of smb2\_write\_request), because it would
conﬁrm the ﬁle was actually written to the remote destination. Unfortunately, Bro/Zeek
does not have an event for that SMB message-type yet. From a network traﬃc capture
standpoint, it’s important to capture the right traﬃc for this type of detection to function
(e.g., all endpoint to endpoint if possible or workstation to server and workstation to
workstation). As such, it is helpful to have a centralized server area where it is possible to
monitor communications between servers and endpoints.
Analytic 1 and 2 are very similar, with the key difference being that Implementation 2 is
intended to capture multiple attempts at lateral movement originating from the same
host within a short time period (5 minutes).
Analytic 1 is indication of an SMB ﬁle write to a Windows Admin File Share:
ADMIN$ or C$
Analytic 2 is observed originating from the same host, regardless of write-attempts
and regardless of whether or not any connection is successful —just connection
attempts— within a speciﬁed period of time.
From a network traﬃc capture standpoint, it’s important to capture the right traﬃc for this
type of detection to function (e.g., all endpoint to endpoint if possible or workstation to
server and workstation to workstation). As such, it is helpful to have a centralized server
area where it is possible to monitor communications between servers and endpoints.The
Service Control Manager (SCM) can be used to copy a ﬁle to the ADMIN$ share and
execute it as a service. This can be detected by looking for incoming RPC network
connections to the Service Control Manager, followed by services.exe spawning a child
process.
Analytic 1 - Basic
suspicious\_smb\_traffic = filter log\_events where ((event\_id ==
"smb2\_write\_request" OR event\_type == "smb1\_write\_andx\_response") AND
(connection.smb\_state.path == "ADMIN$" OR connection.smb\_state.path ==
"C$"))
Analytic 2 - Multiple Attempts (Time Window)
suspicious\_smb\_traffic = filter log\_events where ( (event\_type ==
"smb2\_tree\_connect\_request" OR event\_type ==
"smb1\_tree\_connect\_andx\_request") AND (connection.smb\_state.path ==
"ADMIN$" OR connection.smb\_state.path == "C$") REPEATS 5 TIMES WITHIN 5
MINUTES FROM SAME src\_ip )3/22/24, 3:49 PM Remote Services: SMB/Windows Admin Shares, Sub-technique T1021.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/002/ 9/11ID Data Source Data Component Detects
Network Traﬃc
FlowMonitor network data for uncommon SMB data ﬂows. Processes utilizing the network
that do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are
suspicious. Network Analysis frameworks such as Zeek can be used to capture, decode,
and alert on SMB network ﬂows.
Notes:
The logic for Implementation 1 is based around detecting on SMB write requests,
which are often used by adversaries to move laterally to another host. Unlike SMB
Reads, SMB Write requests typically require an additional level of access, resulting
in less activity. Focusing on SMB Write activity narrows the ﬁeld to looking at
techniques associated with actively changing remote hosts, instead of passively
reading ﬁles.
The logic for Implementation 2 is based around detection of new processes that
were created from a ﬁle written to an SMB share. First, a ﬁle is remotely written to a
host via an SMB share; then, a variety of Execution techniques can be used to
remotely establish execution of the ﬁle or script. To detect this behavior, look for
ﬁles that are written to a host over SMB and then later run directly as a process or in
the command line arguments. SMB File Writes and Remote Execution may happen
normally in an environment, but the combination of the two behaviors is less
frequent and more likely to indicate adversarial activity.
Analytic 1 - SMB Write
smb\_write = filter flow where (dest\_port == "445" AND protocol ==
"smb.write")
Analytic 2 - SMB Copy and Execution
remote\_start = join (smb:write, process:create) where ( smb\_write.hostname
== process.hostname AND smb\_write.file\_path == process.image\_path AND
(smb\_write.time < process.time))
Analytic 3 - RPC Activity
rpc\_mapper = filter flows where (dest\_port == 135)rpc\_endpoint = filter
flows where (dest\_port >= 49152 and src\_port >= 49152)rpc = join
rpc\_mapper, rpc\_endpoint where ( (rpc\_mapper.time < rpc\_endpoint.time <
rpc\_mapper.time + 2 seconds) and (rpc\_mapper.src\_ip == rpc\_endpoint.src\_ip
and rpc\_mapper.dest\_ip == rpc\_endpoint.dest\_ip))
DS0009 Process Process
CreationMonitor for the creation of WMI Win32\_Process class and method Create to interact with
a remote network share using Server Message Block (SMB). Relevant indicators detected
by Bro/Zeek is IWbemServices::ExecMethod or IWbemServices::ExecMethodAsync. One
thing to notice is that when the Create method is used on a remote system, the method is
run under a host process named "Wmiprvse.exe".
The process WmiprvSE.exe is what spawns the process deﬁned in the CommandLine
parameter of the Create method. Therefore, the new process created remotely will have
Wmiprvse.exe as a parent. WmiprvSE.exe is a DCOM server and it is spawned underneath
the DCOM service host svchost.exe with the following parameters
C:\WINDOWS\system32\svchost.exe -k DcomLaunch -p. From a logon session
perspective, on the target, WmiprvSE.exe is spawned in a different logon session by the
DCOM service host. However, whatever is executed by WmiprvSE.exe occurs on the new
network type (3) logon session created by the user that authenticated from the network.
Analytic 1 - Basic
suspicious\_smb\_traffic = filter processes where((event\_id = "4688" or
event\_id = "1") AND parent\_process\_name = "wmiprvse.exe" AND targetlogonid
= "0x3e7")3/22/24, 3:49 PM Remote Services: SMB/Windows Admin Shares, Sub-technique T1021.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/002/ 10/11References
1. Wikipedia. (2017, December 16). Server Message Block.
Retrieved December 21, 2017.
2. Microsoft. (2003, March 28). What Is RPC?. Retrieved June 12,
2016.
3. Microsoft. (n.d.). How to create and delete hidden or
administrative shares on client computers. Retrieved
November 20, 2014.
4. Joe Slowik. (2018, October 12). Anatomy of an Attack:
Detecting and Defeating CRASHOVERRIDE. Retrieved
December 18, 2020.
5. Grange, W. (2020, July 13). Anchor\_dns malware goes cross
platform. Retrieved September 10, 2020.
. NSA, CISA, FBI, NCSC. (2021, July). Russian GRU Conducting
Global Brute Force Campaign to Compromise Enterprise and
Cloud Environments. Retrieved July 26, 2021.
7. Symantec Security Response. (2016, September 6). Buckeye
cyberespionage group shifts gaze from US to Hong Kong.
Retrieved September 26, 2016.
. Dahan, A. (2017). Operation Cobalt Kitty. Retrieved December
27, 2018.
9. Symantec. (2018, February 28). Chafer: Latest Attacks Reveal
Heightened Ambitions. Retrieved May 22, 2020.
10. Crowdstrike. (2020, March 2). 2020 Global Threat Report.
Retrieved December 11, 2020.
11. Baumgartner, K. and Garnaeva, M.. (2014, November 3). BE2
custom plugins, router abuse, and target proﬁles. Retrieved
March 24, 2016.
12. Lambert, T. (2020, May 7). Introducing Blue Mockingbird.
Retrieved May 26, 2020.
13. Harbison, M. and Renals, P. (2022, July 5). When Pentest Tools
Go Brutal: Red-Teaming Tool Being Abused by Malicious
Actors. Retrieved February 1, 2023.
14. Chell, D. PART 3: How I Met Your Beacon – Brute Ratel.
Retrieved February 6, 2023.
15. Dark Vortex. (n.d.). A Customized Command and Control
Center for Red Team and Adversary Simulation. Retrieved
February 7, 2023.
1. Cycraft. (2020, April 15). APT Group Chimera - APT Operation
Skeleton key Targets Taiwan Semiconductor Vendors.
Retrieved August 24, 2020.
17. Jansen, W . (2021, January 12). Abusing cloud services to ﬂy
under the radar. Retrieved January 19, 2021.
1. Cobalt Strike. (2017, December 8). Tactics, Techniques, and
Procedures. Retrieved December 20, 2017.
19. Keneﬁck, I. et al. (2022, October 12). Black Basta Ransomware
Gang Inﬁltrates Networks via QAKBOT, Brute Ratel, and Cobalt
Strike. Retrieved February 6, 2023.
20. Burton, K. (n.d.). The Conﬁcker Worm. Retrieved February 18,
2021.
21. Rochberger, L. (2021, January 12). Cybereason vs. Conti
Ransomware. Retrieved February 17, 2021.
22. Baskin, B. (2020, July 8). TAU Threat Discovery: Conti
Ransomware. Retrieved February 17, 2021.
23. Alperovitch, D. (2014, July 7). Deep in Thought: Chinese
Targeting of National Security Think Tanks. Retrieved
November 12, 2014.
24. Neeamni, D., Rubinfeld, A.. (2021, July 1). Diavol - A New
Ransomware Used By Wizard Spider?. Retrieved November 12,
2021.33. Villeneuve, N., Bennett, J. T., Moran, N., Haq, T., Scott, M., &
Geers, K. (2014). OPERATION “KE3CHANG”: Targeted Attacks
Against Ministries of Foreign Affairs. Retrieved November 12,
2014.
34. Smallridge, R. (2018, March 10). APT15 is alive and strong: An
analysis of RoyalCli and RoyalDNS. Retrieved April 4, 2018.
35. Symantec Security Response Attack Investigation Team.
(2018, April 23). New Orangeworm attack group targets the
healthcare sector in the U.S., Europe, and Asia. Retrieved May
8, 2018.
3. Novetta Threat Research Group. (2016, February 24).
Operation Blockbuster: Unraveling the Long Thread of the
Sony Attack. Retrieved February 25, 2016.
37. Novetta Threat Research Group. (2016, February 24).
Operation Blockbuster: Remote Administration Tools &
Content Staging Malware Report. Retrieved March 16, 2016.
3. Hsu, K. et al. (2020, June 24). Lucifer: New Cryptojacking and
DDoS Hybrid Malware Exploiting High and Critical
Vulnerabilities to Infect Windows Devices. Retrieved November
16, 2020.
39. Checkpoint Research. (2021, November 15). Uncovering
MosesStaff techniques: Ideology over Money. Retrieved
August 11, 2022.
40. Savill, J. (1999, March 4). Net.exe reference. Retrieved
September 22, 2015.
41. Cylance. (2014, December). Operation Cleaver. Retrieved
September 14, 2017.
42. Chiu, A. (2016, June 27). New Ransomware Variant "Nyetya"
Compromises Systems Worldwide. Retrieved March 26, 2019.
43. US-CERT. (2017, July 1). Alert (TA17-181A): Petya
Ransomware. Retrieved March 15, 2019.
44. Russinovich, M. (2004, June 28). PsExec. Retrieved December
17, 2015.
45. Mercer, W. and Rascagneres, P. (2018, February 12). Olympic
Destroyer Takes Aim At Winter Olympics. Retrieved March 14,
2019.
4. Dantzig, M. v., Schamper, E. (2019, December 19). Operation
Wocao: Shining a light on one of China’s hidden hacking
groups. Retrieved October 8, 2020.
47. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research and Analysis Team. (2014,
November 24). THE REGIN PLATFORM NATION-STATE
OWNAGE OF GSM NETWORKS. Retrieved December 1, 2014.
4. Cybereason Global SOC and Cybereason Security Research
Teams. (2022, December 14). Royal Rumble: Analysis of
Royal Ransomware. Retrieved March 30, 2023.
49. Abrams, L. (2021, January 14). Ryuk Ransomware Uses Wake-
on-Lan To Encrypt Oﬄine Devices. Retrieved February 11,
2021.
50. MSTIC. (2022, October 14). New “Prestige” ransomware
impacts organizations in Ukraine and Poland. Retrieved
January 19, 2023.
51. FireEye. (2016, November 30). FireEye Responds to Wave of
Destructive Cyber Attacks in Gulf Region. Retrieved January
11, 2017.
52. CrowdStrike. (2022, January 27). Early Bird Catches the
Wormhole: Observations from the StellarParticle Campaign.
Retrieved February 7, 2022.
53. Nicolas Falliere, Liam O Murchu, Eric Chien 2011, February
W32.Stuxnet Dossier (Version 1.4) Retrieved. 2017/09/223/22/24, 3:49 PM Remote Services: SMB/Windows Admin Shares, Sub-technique T1021.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/002/ 11/1125. Symantec Security Response. (2011, November). W32.Duqu:
The precursor to the next Stuxnet. Retrieved September 17,
2015.
2. Smith, A.. (2017, December 22). Protect your network from
Emotet Trojan with Malwarebytes Endpoint Security. Retrieved
January 17, 2019.
27. Binary Defense. (n.d.). Emotet Evolves With new Wi-Fi
Spreader. Retrieved September 8, 2023.
2. Sygnia Incident Response Team. (2022, January 5). TG2003:
ELEPHANT BEETLE UNCOVERING AN ORGANIZED
FINANCIAL-THEFT OPERATION. Retrieved February 9, 2023.
29. Elovitz, S. & Ahl, I. (2016, August 18). Know Your Enemy: New
Financially-Motivated & Spear-Phishing Group. Retrieved
February 26, 2018.
30. Budaca, E., et al. (2021, August 25). FIN8 Threat Actor Goes
Agile with New Sardonic Backdoor. Retrieved August 9, 2023.
31. CISA. (2020, September 15). Iran-Based Threat Actor Exploits
VPN Vulnerabilities. Retrieved December 21, 2020.
32. ESET. (2022, March 1). IsaacWiper and HermeticWizard: New
wiper and worm targetingUkraine. Retrieved April 10, 2022.54. Dell SecureWorks Counter Threat Unit Special Operations
Team. (2015, May 28). Living off the Land. Retrieved January
26, 2016.
55. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research and Analysis Team. (2014,
August 7). The Epic Turla Operation: Solving some of the
mysteries of Snake/Uroburos. Retrieved December 11, 2014.
5. The DFIR Report. (2020, November 5). Ryuk Speed Run, 2
Hours to Ransom. Retrieved November 6, 2020.
57. The DFIR Report. (2020, October 8). Ryuk’s Return. Retrieved
October 9, 2020.
5. Novetta. (n.d.). Operation SMN: Axiom Threat Actor Group
Report. Retrieved November 12, 2014.
59. McAfee® Foundstone® Professional Services and McAfee
Labs™. (2011, February 10). Global Energy Cyberattacks:
“Night Dragon”. Retrieved February 19, 2018.
0. Microsoft. (2020, March 10). Preventing SMB traﬃc from
lateral connections and entering or leaving the network.
Retrieved June 1, 2020.
1. French, D. (2018, October 9). Detecting & Removing an
Attacker’s WMI Persistence. Retrieved October 11, 2019.
2. Payne, J. (2015, November 26). Tracking Lateral Movement
Part One - Special Groups and Speciﬁc Service Accounts.
Retrieved February 1, 2016.
3. Payne, J. (2015, November 23). Monitoring what matters -
Windows Event Forwarding for everyone (even if you already
have a SIEM.). Retrieved February 1, 2016.