3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Location Discovery, Technique T1614 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1614/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Location Discovery, Technique T1614 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1614/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>System Location Discovery3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Location Discovery, Technique T1614 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1614/ 3/4System Location Discovery
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S1025 Amadey Amadey does not run any tasks or install additional malware if the victim machine is based in Russia.
S0115 Crimson Crimson can identify the geographical location of a victim host.
S0673 DarkWatchman DarkWatchman can identity the OS locale of a compromised host.
S0632 GrimAgent GrimAgent can identify the country code on a compromised host.
S0262 QuasarRAT QuasarRAT can determine the country a victim host is located in.
S0481 Ragnar Locker Before executing malicious code, Ragnar Locker checks the Windows API GetLocaleInfoW and doesn't
encrypt ﬁles if it ﬁnds a former Soviet country.
S1018 Saint Bot Saint Bot has conducted system locale checks to see if the compromised host is in Russia, Ukraine,
Belarus, Armenia, Kazakhstan, or Moldova.
S0461 SDBbot SDBbot can collected the country code of a compromised machine.
G1008 SideCopy SideCopy has identiﬁed the country location of a compromised host.Adversaries may gather information in an attempt to calculate the geographical location of a victim host. Adversaries may use the
information from System Location Discovery during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the
adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts speciﬁc actions.
Adversaries may attempt to infer the location of a system using various system checks, such as time zone, keyboard layout, and/or
language settings. Windows API functions such as GetLocaleInfoW can also be used to determine the locale of the host. In cloud
environments, an instance's availability zone may also be discovered by accessing the instance metadata service from the instance.
Adversaries may also attempt to infer the location of a victim host using IP addressing, such as via online geolocation IP-lookup services.Sub-techniques (1)
[1][2][3] [1]
[4][5]
[6]
[2]
Version PermalinkID: T1614
Sub-techniques:  T1614.001

Tactic: Discovery

Platforms: IaaS, Linux, Windows, macOS

Permissions Required: User
Contributors: Hiroki Nagahama, NEC Corporation; Katie Nickels, Red Canary; Manikantan Srinivasan, NEC Corporation India; Pooja
Natarajan, NEC Corporation India; Wes Hurd
Version: 1.0
Created: 01 April 2021
Last Modiﬁed: 15 October 2021
[7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]
[1]
[12][13]
[14]
[15]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Location Discovery, Technique T1614 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1614/ 4/4Mitigations
This type of attack technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on the abuse of system features.
Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that may gather information in an attempt to
calculate the geographical location of a victim host.
DS0009 Process OS API Execution Remote access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API, such
as calling GetLocaleInfoW to gather information.
Process Creation Monitor newly executed processes that may gather information in an attempt to calculate
the geographical location of a victim host.
References[1]
1. FBI. (2020, November 19). Indicators of Compromise
Associated with Ragnar Locker Ransomware. Retrieved April
1, 2021.
2. Wisniewski, C. (2016, May 3). Location-based threats: How
cybercriminals target you based on where you live. Retrieved
April 1, 2021.
3. Abrams, L. (2020, October 23). New RAT malware gets
commands via Discord, has ransomware feature. Retrieved
April 1, 2021.
4. Amazon. (n.d.). Instance identity documents. Retrieved April 2,
2021.
5. Microsoft. (2021, February 21). Azure Instance Metadata
Service (Windows). Retrieved April 2, 2021.
. Dedola, G. (2020, August 20). Transparent Tribe: Evolution
analysis, part 1. Retrieved April 1, 2021.
7. Kasuya, M. (2020, January 8). Threat Spotlight: Amadey Bot
Targets Non-Russian Users. Retrieved July 14, 2022.
. Dedola, G. (2020, August 20). Transparent Tribe: Evolution
analysis, part 1. Retrieved September 2, 2021.9. Smith, S., Stafford, M. (2021, December 14). DarkWatchman:
A new evolution in ﬁleless techniques. Retrieved January 10,
2022.
10. Priego, A. (2021, July). THE BROTHERS GRIM: THE
REVERSING TALE OF GRIMAGENT MALWARE USED BY RYUK.
Retrieved July 16, 2021.
11. CISA. (2018, December 18). Analysis Report (AR18-352A)
Quasar Open-Source Remote Administration Tool. Retrieved
August 1, 2022.
12. Hasherezade. (2021, April 6). A deep dive into Saint Bot, a new
downloader. Retrieved June 9, 2022.
13. Unit 42. (2022, February 25). Spear Phishing Attacks Target
Organizations in Ukraine, Payloads Include the Document
Stealer OutSteel and the Downloader SaintBot. Retrieved June
9, 2022.
14. Financial Security Institute. (2020, February 28). Proﬁling of
TA505 Threat Group That Continues to Attack the Financial
Sector. Retrieved July 14, 2022.
15. Threat Intelligence Team. (2021, December 2). SideCopy APT:
Connecting lures victims, payloads to infrastructure. Retrieved
June 13, 2022.