3/22/24, 3:52 PM Proxy: External Proxy, Sub-technique T1090.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1090/002/ 1/6Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:52 PM Proxy: External Proxy, Sub-technique T1090.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1090/002/ 2/6Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Proxy>External Proxy3/22/24, 3:52 PM Proxy: External Proxy, Sub-technique T1090.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1090/002/ 3/6Proxy: External Proxy
Adversaries may use an external proxy to act as an intermediary for network communications to a command and control server to avoid
direct connections to their infrastructure. Many tools exist that enable traﬃc redirection through proxies or port redirection, including HTRAN,
ZXProxy, and ZXPortMap. Adversaries use these types of proxies to manage command and control communications, to provide resiliency
in the face of connection loss, or to ride over existing trusted communications paths to avoid suspicion.
External connection proxies are used to mask the destination of C2 traﬃc and are typically implemented with port redirectors. Compromised
systems outside of the victim environment may be used for these purposes, as well as purchased infrastructure such as cloud-based
resources or virtual private servers. Proxies may be chosen based on the low likelihood that a connection to them from a compromised
system would be investigated. Victim systems would communicate directly with the external proxy on the Internet and then the proxy would
forward communications to the C2 server.Other sub-techniques of Proxy (4)
[1]
Version PermalinkID: T1090.002
Sub-technique of:  T1090

Tactic: Command and Control

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS
Version: 1.0
Created: 14 March 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 27 March 20203/22/24, 3:52 PM Proxy: External Proxy, Sub-technique T1090.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1090/002/ 4/6Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0007 APT28 APT28 used other victims as proxies to relay command traﬃc, for instance using a compromised Georgian
military email server as a hop point to NATO victims. The group has also used a tool that acts as a proxy to
allow C2 even if the victim is behind a router. APT28 has also used a machine to relay and obscure
communications between CHOPSTICK and their server.
G0022 APT3 An APT3 downloader establishes SOCKS5 connections for its initial C2.
G0087 APT39 APT39 has used various tools to proxy C2 communications.
G0053 FIN5 FIN5 maintains access to victim environments by using FLIPSIDE to create a proxy for a backup RDP
tunnel.
G0093 GALLIUM GALLIUM used a modiﬁed version of HTRAN to redirect connections between networks.
S0260 InvisiMole InvisiMole InvisiMole can identify proxy servers used by the victim and use them for C2 communication.
G0032 Lazarus Group Lazarus Group has used multiple proxies to obfuscate network traﬃc from victims.
G0045 menuPass menuPass has used a global service provider's IP as a proxy for C2 traﬃc from a victim.
G0069 MuddyWater MuddyWater has controlled POWERSTATS from behind a proxy network to obfuscate the C2 location.
MuddyWater has used a series of compromised websites that victims connected to randomly to relay
information to command and control (C2).
S0699 Mythic Mythic can leverage a modiﬁed SOCKS5 proxy to tunnel egress C2 traﬃc.
S0439 Okrum Okrum can identify proxy servers conﬁgured and used by the victim, and use it to make HTTP requests to
C2 its server.
S0223 POWERSTATS POWERSTATS has connected to C2 servers through proxies.
S0650 QakBot QakBot has a module that can proxy C2 communications.
S1084 QUIETEXIT QUIETEXIT can proxy traﬃc via SOCKS.
S0019 Regin Regin leveraged several compromised universities as proxies to obscure its origin.
S0444 ShimRat ShimRat can use pre-conﬁgured HTTP proxies.
G0091 Silence Silence has used ProxyBot, which allows the attacker to redirect traﬃc from the current node to the
backconnect server via Sock4\Socks5.
G0131 Tonto Team Tonto Team has routed their traﬃc through an external server in order to obfuscate their location.
S0266 TrickBot TrickBot has been known to reach a command and control server via one of nine proxy IP addresses. 
S0141 Winnti for
WindowsThe Winnti for Windows HTTP/S C2 mode can make use of an external proxy.[2][3][4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11][12]
[13][14]
[15]
[16][17]
[18]
[19]
[20]
[21]
[22]
[23]
[24]
[25]
[26]
[27]
[28]
[29]3/22/24, 3:52 PM Proxy: External Proxy, Sub-technique T1090.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1090/002/ 5/6Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1031 Network
Intrusion
PreventionNetwork intrusion detection and prevention systems that use network signatures to identify traﬃc for
speciﬁc adversary malware can be used to mitigate activity at the network level. Signatures are often for
unique indicators within protocols and may be based on the speciﬁc C2 protocol used by a particular
adversary or tool, and will likely be different across various malware families and versions. Adversaries will
likely change tool C2 signatures over time or construct protocols in such a way as to avoid detection by
common defensive tools.
Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0029 Network TraﬃcNetwork
Connection
CreationMonitor for newly constructed network connections that are sent or received by
untrusted hosts.
Network Traﬃc
ContentMonitor and analyze traﬃc patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that
do not follow the expected protocol standards and traﬃc ﬂows (e.g extraneous packets
that do not belong to established ﬂows, gratuitous or anomalous traﬃc patterns,
anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and
command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments
associated to traﬃc patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of ﬁles that do not normally
initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).
Network Traﬃc
FlowMonitor network data for uncommon data ﬂows. Processes utilizing the network that do
not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are
suspicious.[30]3/22/24, 3:52 PM Proxy: External Proxy, Sub-technique T1090.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1090/002/ 6/6References
1. Wilhoit, K. (2013, March 4). In-Depth Look: APT Attack Tools
of the Trade. Retrieved December 2, 2015.
2. FireEye. (2015). APT28: A WINDOW INTO RUSSIA’S CYBER
ESPIONAGE OPERATIONS?. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
3. Bitdefender. (2015, December). APT28 Under the Scope.
Retrieved February 23, 2017.
4. Mueller, R. (2018, July 13). Indictment - United States of
America vs. VIKTOR BORISOVICH NETYKSHO, et al. Retrieved
September 13, 2018.
5. Moran, N., et al. (2014, November 21). Operation Double Tap.
Retrieved January 14, 2016.
. Rusu, B. (2020, May 21). Iranian Chafer APT Targeted Air
Transportation and Government in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia.
Retrieved May 22, 2020.
7. Bromiley, M. and Lewis, P. (2016, October 7). Attacking the
Hospitality and Gaming Industries: Tracking an Attacker
Around the World in 7 Years. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
. Cybereason Nocturnus. (2019, June 25). Operation Soft Cell: A
Worldwide Campaign Against Telecommunications Providers.
Retrieved July 18, 2019.
9. Hromcová, Z. (2018, June 07). InvisiMole: Surprisingly
equipped spyware, undercover since 2013. Retrieved July 10,
2018.
10. Hromcova, Z. and Cherpanov, A. (2020, June). INVISIMOLE:
THE HIDDEN PART OF THE STORY. Retrieved July 16, 2020.
11. US-CERT. (2017, November 22). Alert (TA17-318A): HIDDEN
COBRA – North Korean Remote Administration Tool:
FALLCHILL. Retrieved December 7, 2017.
12. Mabutas, G. (2020, May 11). New MacOS Dacls RAT Backdoor
Shows Lazarus’ Multi-Platform Attack Capability. Retrieved
August 10, 2020.
13. FireEye iSIGHT Intelligence. (2017, April 6). APT10 (MenuPass
Group): New Tools, Global Campaign Latest Manifestation of
Longstanding Threat. Retrieved June 29, 2017.
14. Matsuda, A., Muhammad I. (2018, September 13). APT10
Targeting Japanese Corporations Using Updated TTPs.
Retrieved September 17, 2018.
15. Symantec DeepSight Adversary Intelligence Team. (2018,
December 10). Seedworm: Group Compromises Government
Agencies, Oil & Gas, NGOs, Telecoms, and IT Firms. Retrieved
December 14, 2018.1. Reaqta. (2017, November 22). A dive into MuddyWater APT
targeting Middle-East. Retrieved May 18, 2020.
17. Peretz, A. and Theck, E. (2021, March 5). Earth Vetala –
MuddyWater Continues to Target Organizations in the Middle
East. Retrieved March 18, 2021.
1. Thomas, C. (n.d.). Mythc Documentation. Retrieved March 25,
2022.
19. Hromcova, Z. (2019, July). OKRUM AND KETRICAN: AN
OVERVIEW OF RECENT KE3CHANG GROUP ACTIVITY.
Retrieved May 6, 2020.
20. Singh, S. et al.. (2018, March 13). Iranian Threat Group
Updates Tactics, Techniques and Procedures in Spear
Phishing Campaign. Retrieved April 11, 2018.
21. Kuzmenko, A. et al. (2021, September 2). QakBot technical
analysis. Retrieved September 27, 2021.
22. Mandiant. (2022, May 2). UNC3524: Eye Spy on Your Email.
Retrieved August 17, 2023.
23. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research and Analysis Team. (2014,
November 24). THE REGIN PLATFORM NATION-STATE
OWNAGE OF GSM NETWORKS. Retrieved December 1, 2014.
24. Yonathan Klijnsma. (2016, May 17). Mofang: A politically
motivated information stealing adversary. Retrieved May 12,
2020.
25. Group-IB. (2018, September). Silence: Moving Into the
Darkside. Retrieved May 5, 2020.
2. Daniel Lughi, Jaromir Horejsi. (2020, October 2). Tonto Team -
Exploring the TTPs of an advanced threat actor operating a
large infrastructure. Retrieved October 17, 2021.
27. Liviu Arsene, Radu Tudorica. (2020, November 23). TrickBot is
Dead. Long Live TrickBot!. Retrieved September 28, 2021.
2. Radu Tudorica. (2021, July 12). A Fresh Look at Trickbot’s
Ever-Improving VNC Module. Retrieved September 28, 2021.
29. Novetta Threat Research Group. (2015, April 7). Winnti
Analysis. Retrieved February 8, 2017.
30. Gardiner, J., Cova, M., Nagaraja, S. (2014, February).
Command & Control Understanding, Denying and Detecting.
Retrieved April 20, 2016.