3/22/24, 3:34 PM Compromise Infrastructure: Serverless, Sub-technique T1584.007 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1584/007/ 1/1Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.
Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Compromise Infrastructure>Serverless
Compromise Infrastructure: Serverless
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1056 Pre-
compromiseThis technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on behaviors performed
outside of the scope of enterprise defenses and controls.
Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0035 Internet Scan Response
ContentOnce adversaries leverage serverless functions as infrastructure (ex: for command and
control), it may be possible to look for unique characteristics associated with adversary
software, if known. Much of this activity will take place outside the visibility of the target
organization, making detection of this behavior diﬃcult. Detection efforts may be focused
on related stages of the adversary lifecycle.
ReferencesAdversaries may compromise serverless cloud infrastructure, such as Cloudﬂare Workers or AWS Lambda functions, that can be used during
targeting. By utilizing serverless infrastructure, adversaries can make it more diﬃcult to attribute infrastructure used during operations back
to them.
Once compromised, the serverless runtime environment can be leveraged to either respond directly to infected machines or to Proxy traﬃc to
an adversary-owned command and control server. As traﬃc generated by these functions will appear to come from subdomains of
common cloud providers, it may be diﬃcult to distinguish from ordinary traﬃc to these providers.Other sub-techniques of Compromise Infrastructure (7)
[1][2]
[3][1]
Version PermalinkID: T1584.007
Sub-technique of:  T1584

Tactic: Resource Development

Platforms: PRE
Contributors: Awake Security
Version: 1.0
Created: 08 July 2022
Last Modiﬁed: 20 October 2022
[4]
1. Lawrence Abrams. (2020, March 14). BlackWater Malware
Abuses Cloudﬂare Workers for C2 Communication. Retrieved
July 8, 2022.
2. Adam Chester. (2020, February 25). AWS Lambda Redirector.
Retrieved July 8, 2022.3. Gary Golomb. (n.d.). Threat Hunting Series: Detecting
Command & Control in the Cloud. Retrieved July 8, 2022.
4. ThreatConnect. (2020, December 15). Infrastructure Research
and Hunting: Boiling the Domain Ocean. Retrieved October 12,
2021.