3/22/24, 3:50 PM Automated Collection, Technique T1119 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1119/ 1/8Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:50 PM Automated Collection, Technique T1119 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1119/ 2/8Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Automated Collection3/22/24, 3:50 PM Automated Collection, Technique T1119 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1119/ 3/8Automated Collection
Once established within a system or network, an adversary may use automated techniques for collecting internal data. Methods for
performing this technique could include use of a Command and Scripting Interpreter to search for and copy information ﬁtting set criteria
such as ﬁle type, location, or name at speciﬁc time intervals. In cloud-based environments, adversaries may also use cloud APIs, command
line interfaces, or extract, transform, and load (ETL) services to automatically collect data. This functionality could also be built into remote
access tools.
This technique may incorporate use of other techniques such as File and Directory Discovery and Lateral Tool Transfer to identify and move
ﬁles, as well as Cloud Service Dashboard and Cloud Storage Object Discovery to identify resources in cloud environments.
Version PermalinkID: T1119
Sub-techniques:  No sub-techniques

Tactic: Collection

Platforms: IaaS, Linux, SaaS, Windows, macOS

System Requirements: Permissions to access directories, ﬁles, and API endpoints that store information of interest.
Contributors: Praetorian
Version: 1.1
Created: 31 May 2017
Last Modiﬁed: 11 April 20223/22/24, 3:50 PM Automated Collection, Technique T1119 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1119/ 4/8Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0622 AppleSeed AppleSeed has automatically collected data from USB drives, keystrokes, and screen images before
exﬁltration.
G0006 APT1 APT1 used a batch script to perform a series of discovery techniques and saves it to a text ﬁle.
G0007 APT28 APT28 used a publicly available tool to gather and compress multiple documents on the DCCC and DNC
networks.
S0438 Attor Attor has automatically collected data about the compromised system.
S0128 BADNEWS BADNEWS monitors USB devices and copies ﬁles with certain extensions to a predeﬁned directory.
S0239 Bankshot Bankshot recursively generates a list of ﬁles within a directory and sends them back to the control server.
S1043 ccf32 ccf32 can be used to automatically collect ﬁles from a compromised host.
G0114 Chimera Chimera has used custom DLLs for continuous retrieval of data from memory.
S0244 Comnie Comnie executes a batch script to store discovery information in %TEMP%\info.dat and then uploads the
temporarily ﬁle to the remote C2 server.
G0142 Confucius Confucius has used a ﬁle stealer to steal documents and images with the following extensions: txt, pdf,
png, jpg, doc, xls, xlm, odp, ods, odt, rtf, ppt, xlsx, xlsm, docx, pptx, and jpeg.
S0538 Crutch Crutch can automatically monitor removable drives in a loop and copy interesting ﬁles.
S0363 Empire Empire can automatically gather the username, domain name, machine name, and other information
from a compromised system.
G0053 FIN5 FIN5 scans processes on all victim systems in the environment and uses automated scripts to pull back
the results.
G0037 FIN6 FIN6 has used a script to iterate through a list of compromised PoS systems, copy and remove data to a
log ﬁle, and to bind to events from the submit payment button.
C0001 Frankenstein During Frankenstein, the threat actors used Empire to automatically gather the username, domain name,
machine name, and other system information.
S1044 FunnyDream FunnyDream can monitor ﬁles for changes and automatically collect them.
G0047 Gamaredon
GroupGamaredon Group has deployed scripts on compromised systems that automatically scan for interesting
documents.
S0597 GoldFinder GoldFinder logged and stored information related to the route or hops a packet took from a compromised
machine to a hardcoded C2 server, including the target C2 URL, HTTP response/status code, HTTP
response headers and values, and data received from the C2 node.
S0170 Helminth A Helminth VBScript receives a batch script to execute a set of commands in a command prompt.
S0260 InvisiMole InvisiMole can sort and collect speciﬁc documents as well as generate a list of all ﬁles on a newly
inserted drive and store them in an encrypted ﬁle.
G0004 Ke3chang Ke3chang has performed frequent and scheduled data collection from victim networks.
S0395 LightNeuron LightNeuron can be conﬁgured to automatically collect ﬁles under a speciﬁed directory.[1]
[2]
[3]
[4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]
[12]
[13]
[14][15]
[12]
[7]
[16]
[17]
[18]
[19][20]
[21]
[22]3/22/24, 3:50 PM Automated Collection, Technique T1119 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1119/ 5/8ID Name Description
G0045 menuPass menuPass has used the Csvde tool to collect Active Directory ﬁles and data.
S0443 MESSAGETAP MESSAGETAP checks two ﬁles, keyword\_parm.txt and parm.txt, for instructions on how to target and
save data parsed and extracted from SMS message data from the network traﬃc. If an SMS message
contained either a phone number, IMSI number, or keyword that matched the predeﬁned list, it is saved to
a CSV ﬁle for later theft by the threat actor.
S0455 Metamorfo Metamorfo has automatically collected mouse clicks, continuous screenshots on the machine, and set
timers to collect the contents of the clipboard and website browsing.
S0339 Micropsia Micropsia executes an RAR tool to recursively archive ﬁles based on a predeﬁned list of ﬁle extensions
(.xls, .xlsx, .csv, .odt, .doc, .docx, .ppt, .pptx, .pdf, .mdb, .accdb, .accde, \*.txt).
G0129 Mustang Panda Mustang Panda used custom batch scripts to collect ﬁles automatically from a targeted system.
S0699 Mythic Mythic supports scripting of ﬁle downloads from agents.
S0198 NETWIRE NETWIRE can automatically archive collected data.
G0049 OilRig OilRig has used automated collection.
C0014 Operation Wocao During Operation Wocao, threat actors used a script to collect information about the infected system.
S1017 OutSteel OutSteel can automatically scan for and collect ﬁles with speciﬁc extensions.
S1091 Pacu Pacu can automatically collect data, such as CloudFormation templates, EC2 user data, AWS Inspector
reports, and IAM credential reports.
G0040 Patchwork Patchwork developed a ﬁle stealer to search C:\ and collect ﬁles with certain extensions. Patchwork also
executed a script to enumerate all drives, store them as a list, and upload generated ﬁles to the C2 server.
S0428 PoetRAT PoetRAT used ﬁle system monitoring to track modiﬁcation and enable automatic exﬁltration.
S0378 PoshC2 PoshC2 contains a module for recursively parsing through ﬁles and directories to gather valid credit card
numbers.
S0238 Proxysvc Proxysvc automatically collects data about the victim and sends it to the control server.
S0458 Ramsay Ramsay can conduct an initial scan for Microsoft Word documents on the local system, removable
media, and connected network drives, before tagging and collecting them. It can continue tagging
documents to collect with follow up scans.
S0684 ROADTools ROADTools automatically gathers data from Azure AD environments using the Azure Graph API.
S1078 RotaJakiro Depending on the Linux distribution, RotaJakiro executes a set of commands to collect device
information and sends the collected information to the C2 server.
S0090 Rover Rover automatically collects ﬁles from the local system and removable drives based on a predeﬁned list
of ﬁle extensions on a regular timeframe.
S0148 RTM RTM monitors browsing activity and automatically captures screenshots if a victim browses to a URL
matching one of a list of strings.
S0445 ShimRatReporter ShimRatReporter gathered information automatically, without instruction from a C2, related to the user
and host machine that is compiled into a report and sent to the operators.
G0121 Sidewinder Sidewinder has used tools to automatically collect system and network conﬁguration information.[23]
[24]
[25]
[26]
[27]
[28]
[29]
[30]
[31]
[32]
[33]
[5]
[34]
[35]
[36]
[37]
[38]
[39]
[40]
[41][42]
[43]
[44]3/22/24, 3:50 PM Automated Collection, Technique T1119 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1119/ 6/8ID Name Description
S0491 StrongPity StrongPity has a ﬁle searcher component that can automatically collect and archive ﬁles based on a
predeﬁned list of ﬁle extensions.
S0098 T9000 T9000 searches removable storage devices for ﬁles with a pre-deﬁned list of ﬁle extensions (e.g. \* .doc,
.ppt, .xls, .docx, .pptx, \*.xlsx). Any matching ﬁles are encrypted and written to a local user directory.
S0467 TajMahal TajMahal has the ability to index and compress ﬁles into a send queue for exﬁltration.
G0027 Threat Group-
3390Threat Group-3390 ran a command to compile an archive of ﬁle types of interest from the victim user's
directories.
G0081 Tropic Trooper Tropic Trooper has collected information automatically using the adversary's USBferry attack.
S0136 USBStealer For all non-removable drives on a victim, USBStealer executes automated collection of certain ﬁles for
later exﬁltration.
S0476 Valak Valak can download a module to search for and build a report of harvested credential data.
S0257 VERMIN VERMIN saves each collected ﬁle with the automatically generated format {0:dd-MM-yyyy}.txt .
S0466 WindTail WindTail can identify and add ﬁles that possess speciﬁc ﬁle extensions to an array for archiving.
S0251 Zebrocy Zebrocy scans the system and automatically collects ﬁles with the following extensions: .doc, .docx, ,.xls,
.xlsx, .pdf, .pptx, .rar, .zip, .jpg, .jpeg, .bmp, .tiff, .kum, .tlg, .sbx, .cr, .hse, .hsf, and .lhz.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1041 Encrypt
Sensitive
InformationEncryption and off-system storage of sensitive information may be one way to mitigate collection of ﬁles,
but may not stop an adversary from acquiring the information if an intrusion persists over a long period of
time and the adversary is able to discover and access the data through other means. Strong passwords
should be used on certain encrypted documents that use them to prevent oﬄine cracking through Brute
Force techniques.
M1029 Remote Data
StorageEncryption and off-system storage of sensitive information may be one way to mitigate collection of ﬁles,
but may not stop an adversary from acquiring the information if an intrusion persists over a long period of
time and the adversary is able to discover and access the data through other means.
Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments for actions that could be taken to collect
internal data.
DS0022 File File Access Monitor for unexpected ﬁles (e.g., .pdf, .docx, .jpg, etc.) viewed for collecting internal data.
DS0012 Script Script
ExecutionMonitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system would be considered
suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of
cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be
captured from the ﬁle system when possible to determine their actions and intent.[45]
[46]
[47]
[48]
[49]
[50]
[51]
[52]
[53]
[54][55]3/22/24, 3:50 PM Automated Collection, Technique T1119 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1119/ 7/8References
1. KISA. (n.d.). Phishing Target Reconnaissance and Attack
Resource Analysis Operation Muzabi. Retrieved March 7,
2022.
2. Mandiant. (n.d.). APT1 Exposing One of China’s Cyber
Espionage Units. Retrieved July 18, 2016.
3. Mueller, R. (2018, July 13). Indictment - United States of
America vs. VIKTOR BORISOVICH NETYKSHO, et al. Retrieved
September 13, 2018.
4. Hromcova, Z. (2019, October). AT COMMANDS, TOR-BASED
COMMUNICATIONS: MEET ATTOR, A FANTASY CREATURE
AND ALSO A SPY PLATFORM. Retrieved May 6, 2020.
5. Lunghi, D., et al. (2017, December). Untangling the Patchwork
Cyberespionage Group. Retrieved July 10, 2018.
. Sherstobitoff, R. (2018, March 08). Hidden Cobra Targets
Turkish Financial Sector With New Bankshot Implant.
Retrieved May 18, 2018.
7. Vrabie, V. (2020, November). Dissecting a Chinese APT
Targeting South Eastern Asian Government Institutions.
Retrieved September 19, 2022.
. Jansen, W . (2021, January 12). Abusing cloud services to ﬂy
under the radar. Retrieved January 19, 2021.
9. Grunzweig, J. (2018, January 31). Comnie Continues to Target
Organizations in East Asia. Retrieved June 7, 2018.
10. Lunghi, D. (2021, August 17). Confucius Uses Pegasus
Spyware-related Lures to Target Pakistani Military. Retrieved
December 26, 2021.
11. Faou, M. (2020, December 2). Turla Crutch: Keeping the “back
door” open. Retrieved December 4, 2020.
12. Adamitis, D. et al. (2019, June 4). It's alive: Threat actors
cobble together open-source pieces into monstrous
Frankenstein campaign. Retrieved May 11, 2020.
13. Bromiley, M. and Lewis, P. (2016, October 7). Attacking the
Hospitality and Gaming Industries: Tracking an Attacker
Around the World in 7 Years. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
14. FireEye Threat Intelligence. (2016, April). Follow the Money:
Dissecting the Operations of the Cyber Crime Group FIN6.
Retrieved June 1, 2016.
15. Chen, J. (2019, October 10). Magecart Card Skimmers Injected
Into Online Shops. Retrieved September 9, 2020.
1. Boutin, J. (2020, June 11). Gamaredon group grows its game.
Retrieved June 16, 2020.
17. Naﬁsi, R., Lelli, A. (2021, March 4). GoldMax, GoldFinder, and
Sibot: Analyzing NOBELIUM’s layered persistence. Retrieved
March 8, 2021.
1. Falcone, R. and Lee, B.. (2016, May 26). The OilRig Campaign:
Attacks on Saudi Arabian Organizations Deliver Helminth
Backdoor. Retrieved May 3, 2017.
19. Hromcová, Z. (2018, June 07). InvisiMole: Surprisingly
equipped spyware, undercover since 2013. Retrieved July 10,
2018.
20. Hromcova, Z. and Cherpanov, A. (2020, June). INVISIMOLE:
THE HIDDEN PART OF THE STORY. Retrieved July 16, 2020.
21. MSTIC. (2021, December 6). NICKEL targeting government
organizations across Latin America and Europe. Retrieved
March 18, 2022.
22. Faou, M. (2019, May). Turla LightNeuron: One email away
from remote code execution. Retrieved June 24, 2019.
23. Symantec. (2020, November 17). Japan-Linked Organizations
Targeted in Long-Running and Sophisticated Attack
Campaign. Retrieved December 17, 2020.29. Lambert, T. (2020, January 29). Intro to Netwire. Retrieved
January 7, 2021.
30. Unit42. (2016, May 1). Evasive Serpens Unit 42 Playbook
Viewer. Retrieved February 6, 2023.
31. Dantzig, M. v., Schamper, E. (2019, December 19). Operation
Wocao: Shining a light on one of China’s hidden hacking
groups. Retrieved October 8, 2020.
32. Unit 42. (2022, February 25). Spear Phishing Attacks Target
Organizations in Ukraine, Payloads Include the Document
Stealer OutSteel and the Downloader SaintBot. Retrieved June
9, 2022.
33. Rhino Security Labs. (2019, August 22). Pacu. Retrieved
October 17, 2019.
34. Mercer, W, et al. (2020, April 16). PoetRAT: Python RAT uses
COVID-19 lures to target Azerbaijan public and private sectors.
Retrieved April 27, 2020.
35. Nettitude. (2018, July 23). Python Server for PoshC2.
Retrieved April 23, 2019.
3. Sherstobitoff, R., Malhotra, A. (2018, April 24). Analyzing
Operation GhostSecret: Attack Seeks to Steal Data Worldwide.
Retrieved May 16, 2018.
37. Sanmillan, I.. (2020, May 13). Ramsay: A cyber‑espionage
toolkit tailored for air‑gapped networks. Retrieved May 27,
2020.
3. Dirk-jan Mollema. (2020, April 16). Introducing ROADtools -
The Azure AD exploration framework. Retrieved January 31,
2022.
39. Alex Turing, Hui Wang. (2021, April 28). RotaJakiro: A long live
secret backdoor with 0 VT detection. Retrieved June 14, 2023.
40. Ray, V., Hayashi, K. (2016, February 29). New Malware ‘Rover’
Targets Indian Ambassador to Afghanistan. Retrieved
February 29, 2016.
41. Faou, M. and Boutin, J. (2017, February). Read The Manual: A
Guide to the RTM Banking Trojan. Retrieved March 9, 2017.
42. Duncan, B., Harbison, M. (2019, January 23). Russian
Language Malspam Pushing Redaman Banking Malware.
Retrieved June 16, 2020.
43. Yonathan Klijnsma. (2016, May 17). Mofang: A politically
motivated information stealing adversary. Retrieved May 12,
2020.
44. Hegel, T. (2021, January 13). A Global Perspective of the
SideWinder APT. Retrieved January 27, 2021.
45. Tudorica, R. et al. (2020, June 30). StrongPity APT - Revealing
Trojanized Tools, Working Hours and Infrastructure. Retrieved
July 20, 2020.
4. Grunzweig, J. and Miller-Osborn, J.. (2016, February 4). T9000:
Advanced Modular Backdoor Uses Complex Anti-Analysis
Techniques. Retrieved April 15, 2016.
47. GReAT. (2019, April 10). Project TajMahal – a sophisticated
new APT framework. Retrieved October 14, 2019.
4. Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2017, June 27). BRONZE
UNION Cyberespionage Persists Despite Disclosures.
Retrieved July 13, 2017.
49. Chen, J.. (2020, May 12). Tropic Trooper’s Back: USBferry
Attack Targets Air gapped Environments. Retrieved May 20,
2020.
50. Calvet, J. (2014, November 11). Sednit Espionage Group
Attacking Air-Gapped Networks. Retrieved January 4, 2017.3/22/24, 3:50 PM Automated Collection, Technique T1119 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1119/ 8/824. Leong, R., Perez, D., Dean, T. (2019, October 31).
MESSAGETAP: Who’s Reading Your Text Messages?.
Retrieved May 11, 2020.
25. Sierra, E., Iglesias, G.. (2018, April 24). Metamorfo Campaigns
Targeting Brazilian Users. Retrieved July 30, 2020.
2. Tsarfaty, Y. (2018, July 25). Micropsia Malware. Retrieved
November 13, 2018.
27. Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2019, December 29).
BRONZE PRESIDENT Targets NGOs. Retrieved April 13, 2021.
2. Thomas, C. (n.d.). Mythc Documentation. Retrieved March 25,
2022.51. Reaves, J. and Platt, J. (2020, June). Valak Malware and the
Connection to Gozi Loader ConfCrew. Retrieved August 31,
2020.
52. Lancaster, T., Cortes, J. (2018, January 29). VERMIN: Quasar
RAT and Custom Malware Used In Ukraine. Retrieved July 5,
2018.
53. Wardle, Patrick. (2019, January 15). Middle East Cyber-
Espionage analyzing WindShift's implant: OSX.WindTail (part
2). Retrieved October 3, 2019.
54. ESET. (2018, November 20). Sednit: What’s going on with
Zebrocy?. Retrieved February 12, 2019.
55. ESET Research. (2019, May 22). A journey to Zebrocy land.
Retrieved June 20, 2019.