3/22/24, 3:42 PM Hide Artifacts: Ignore Process Interrupts, Sub-technique T1564.011 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/011/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:42 PM Hide Artifacts: Ignore Process Interrupts, Sub-technique T1564.011 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/011/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Hide Artifacts>Ignore Process Interrupts3/22/24, 3:42 PM Hide Artifacts: Ignore Process Interrupts, Sub-technique T1564.011 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/011/ 3/4Hide Artifacts: Ignore Process Interrupts
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0588 GoldMax The GoldMax Linux variant has been executed with the nohup command to ignore hangup signals and
continue to run if the terminal session was terminated.
S0402 OSX/Shlayer OSX/Shlayer has used the nohup command to instruct executed payloads to ignore hangup signals.
Mitigations
This type of attack technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on the abuse of system features.
Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments, such as nohup , that may attempt to hide
processes from interrupt signals.
DS0009 Process Process Creation Monitor newly created processes for artifacts, such as nohup or PowerShell -ErrorAction
SilentlyContinue , that may attempt to hide processes from interrupt signals.Adversaries may evade defensive mechanisms by executing commands that hide from process interrupt signals. Many operating systems
use signals to deliver messages to control process behavior. Command interpreters often include speciﬁc commands/ﬂags that ignore errors
and other hangups, such as when the user of the active session logs off. These interrupt signals may also be used by defensive tools
and/or analysts to pause or terminate speciﬁed running processes.
Adversaries may invoke processes using nohup , PowerShell -ErrorAction SilentlyContinue , or similar commands that may be immune
to hangups. This may enable malicious commands and malware to continue execution through system events that would otherwise
terminate its execution, such as users logging off or the termination of its C2 network connection.
Hiding from process interrupt signals may allow malware to continue execution, but unlike Trap this does not establish Persistence since the
process will not be re-invoked once actually terminated.Other sub-techniques of Hide Artifacts (11)
[1]
[2][3]
Version PermalinkID: T1564.011
Sub-technique of:  T1564

Tactic: Defense Evasion

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS
Contributors: Viren Chaudhari, Qualys
Version: 1.0
Created: 24 August 2023
Last Modiﬁed: 06 November 2023
[4]
[5]3/22/24, 3:42 PM Hide Artifacts: Ignore Process Interrupts, Sub-technique T1564.011 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/011/ 4/4References
1. Linux man-pages. (2023, April 3). signal(7). Retrieved August
30, 2023.
2. Meyering, J. (n.d.). nohup(1). Retrieved August 30, 2023.
3. Microsoft. (2023, March 2). $DebugPreference. Retrieved
August 30, 2023.4. CrowdStrike. (2022, January 27). Early Bird Catches the
Wormhole: Observations from the StellarParticle Campaign.
Retrieved February 7, 2022.
5. Jaron Bradley. (2021, April 26). Shlayer malware abusing
Gatekeeper bypass on macOS. Retrieved September 22, 2021.