3/22/24, 3:47 PM OS Credential Dumping: DCSync, Sub-technique T1003.006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1003/006/ 1/5Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:47 PM OS Credential Dumping: DCSync, Sub-technique T1003.006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1003/006/ 2/5Home>Techniques>Enterprise>OS Credential Dumping>DCSync3/22/24, 3:47 PM OS Credential Dumping: DCSync, Sub-technique T1003.006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1003/006/ 3/5OS Credential Dumping: DCSync
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
C0027 C0027 During C0027, Scattered Spider performed domain replication.
G1006 Earth Lusca Earth Lusca has used a DCSync command with Mimikatz to retrieve credentials from an exploited
controller.
G1004 LAPSUS$ LAPSUS$ has used DCSync attacks to gather credentials for privilege escalation routines.
S0002 Mimikatz Mimikatz performs credential dumping to obtain account and password information useful in gaining
access to additional systems and enterprise network resources. It contains functionality to acquire
information about credentials in many ways, including from DCSync/NetSync.
C0014 Operation
WocaoDuring Operation Wocao, threat actors used Mimikatz's DCSync to dump credentials from the memory of
the targeted system.
C0024 SolarWinds
CompromiseDuring the SolarWinds Compromise, APT29 used privileged accounts to replicate directory service data
with domain controllers.Adversaries may attempt to access credentials and other sensitive information by abusing a Windows Domain Controller's application
programming interface (API) to simulate the replication process from a remote domain controller using a technique called DCSync.
Members of the Administrators, Domain Admins, and Enterprise Admin groups or computer accounts on the domain controller are able to
run DCSync to pull password data from Active Directory, which may include current and historical hashes of potentially useful accounts
such as KRBTGT and Administrators. The hashes can then in turn be used to create a Golden Ticket for use in Pass the Ticket or change
an account's password as noted in Account Manipulation.
DCSync functionality has been included in the "lsadump" module in Mimikatz. Lsadump also includes NetSync, which performs DCSync
over a legacy replication protocol.Other sub-techniques of OS Credential Dumping (8)
[1][2][3][4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
Version PermalinkID: T1003.006
Sub-technique of:  T1003

Tactic: Credential Access

Platforms: Windows

Permissions Required: Administrator
Contributors: ExtraHop; Vincent Le Toux
Version: 1.0
Created: 11 February 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 22 April 2021
[10]
[11]
[12]
[13][8][14][15][16]
[17]
[18][19][20]3/22/24, 3:47 PM OS Credential Dumping: DCSync, Sub-technique T1003.006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1003/006/ 4/5Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1015 Active Directory
ConﬁgurationManage the access control list for "Replicating Directory Changes" and other permissions associated
with domain controller replication.
M1027 Password Policies Ensure that local administrator accounts have complex, unique passwords across all systems on the
network.
M1026 Privileged
Account
ManagementDo not put user or admin domain accounts in the local administrator groups across systems unless
they are tightly controlled, as this is often equivalent to having a local administrator account with the
same password on all systems. Follow best practices for design and administration of an enterprise
network to limit privileged account use across administrative tiers.
Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0026 Active DirectoryActive Directory
Object AccessMonitor domain controller logs for replication requests and other unscheduled activity
possibly associated with DCSync. Note: Domain controllers may not log
replication requests originating from the default domain controller account.
DS0029 Network Traﬃc Network Traﬃc
ContentMonitor and analyze traﬃc patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s)
that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traﬃc ﬂows (e.g extraneous
packets that do not belong to established ﬂows, gratuitous or anomalous traﬃc
patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring
and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line
arguments associated to traﬃc patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of ﬁles that do
not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).
Network Traﬃc
FlowMonitor network data for uncommon data ﬂows. Processes utilizing the network that do
not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are
suspicious.[5][21]
[1][2][3]
[22]3/22/24, 3:47 PM OS Credential Dumping: DCSync, Sub-technique T1003.006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1003/006/ 5/5References
1. Microsoft. (2017, December 1). MS-DRSR Directory
Replication Service (DRS) Remote Protocol. Retrieved
December 4, 2017.
2. Microsoft. (n.d.). IDL\_DRSGetNCChanges (Opnum 3).
Retrieved December 4, 2017.
3. SambaWiki. (n.d.). DRSUAPI. Retrieved December 4, 2017.
4. Wine API. (n.d.). samlib.dll. Retrieved December 4, 2017.
5. Metcalf, S. (2015, September 25). Mimikatz DCSync Usage,
Exploitation, and Detection. Retrieved August 7, 2017.
. Schroeder, W. (2015, September 22). Mimikatz and DCSync
and ExtraSids, Oh My. Retrieved August 7, 2017.
7. Warren, J. (2017, July 11). Manipulating User Passwords with
Mimikatz. Retrieved December 4, 2017.
. Deply, B., Le Toux, V. (2016, June 5). module ~ lsadump.
Retrieved August 7, 2017.
9. Microsoft. (2017, December 1). MS-NRPC - Netlogon Remote
Protocol. Retrieved December 6, 2017.
10. Parisi, T. (2022, December 2). Not a SIMulation: CrowdStrike
Investigations Reveal Intrusion Campaign Targeting Telco and
BPO Companies. Retrieved June 30, 2023.
11. Chen, J., et al. (2022). Delving Deep: An Analysis of Earth
Lusca’s Operations. Retrieved July 1, 2022.12. MSTIC, DART, M365 Defender. (2022, March 24). DEV-0537
Criminal Actor Targeting Organizations for Data Exﬁltration
and Destruction. Retrieved May 17, 2022.
13. Deply, B. (n.d.). Mimikatz. Retrieved September 29, 2015.
14. Grafnetter, M. (2015, October 26). Retrieving DPAPI Backup
Keys from Active Directory. Retrieved December 19, 2017.
15. The Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC), the Canadian
Centre for Cyber Security (CCCS), the New Zealand National
Cyber Security Centre (NZ NCSC), CERT New Zealand, the UK
National Cyber Security Centre (UK NCSC) and the US National
Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center
(NCCIC). (2018, October 11). Joint report on publicly available
hacking tools. Retrieved March 11, 2019.
1. Strategic Cyber LLC. (2020, November 5). Cobalt Strike:
Advanced Threat Tactics for Penetration Testers. Retrieved
April 13, 2021.
17. Dantzig, M. v., Schamper, E. (2019, December 19). Operation
Wocao: Shining a light on one of China’s hidden hacking
groups. Retrieved October 8, 2020.
1. Microsoft 365 Defender Team. (2020, December 28). Using
Microsoft 365 Defender to protect against Solorigate.
Retrieved January 7, 2021.
19. MSTIC, CDOC, 365 Defender Research Team. (2021, January
20). Deep dive into the Solorigate second-stage activation:
From SUNBURST to TEARDROP and Raindrop . Retrieved
January 22, 2021.
20. CrowdStrike. (2022, January 27). Early Bird Catches the
Wormhole: Observations from the StellarParticle Campaign.
Retrieved February 7, 2022.
21. Microsoft. (n.d.). How to grant the "Replicating Directory
Changes" permission for the Microsoft Metadirectory Services
ADMA service account. Retrieved December 4, 2017.
22. Schroeder, W. (2015, September 22). Mimikatz and DCSync
and ExtraSids, Oh My. Retrieved December 4, 2017.