3/22/24, 3:46 PM Forge Web Credentials: SAML Tokens, Sub-technique T1606.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1606/002/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:46 PM Forge Web Credentials: SAML Tokens, Sub-technique T1606.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1606/002/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Forge Web Credentials>SAML Tokens3/22/24, 3:46 PM Forge Web Credentials: SAML Tokens, Sub-technique T1606.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1606/002/ 3/4Forge Web Credentials: SAML Tokens
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0677 AADInternals AADInternals can be used to create SAML tokens using the AD Federated Services token signing
certiﬁcate.
C0024 SolarWinds
CompromiseDuring the SolarWinds Compromise, APT29 created tokens using compromised SAML signing
certiﬁcates.An adversary may forge SAML tokens with any permissions claims and lifetimes if they possess a valid SAML token-signing certiﬁcate.
The default lifetime of a SAML token is one hour, but the validity period can be speciﬁed in the NotOnOrAfter value of the conditions ...
element in a token. This value can be changed using the AccessTokenLifetime in a LifetimeTokenPolicy . Forged SAML tokens enable
adversaries to authenticate across services that use SAML 2.0 as an SSO (single sign-on) mechanism.
An adversary may utilize Private Keys to compromise an organization's token-signing certiﬁcate to create forged SAML tokens. If the
adversary has suﬃcient permissions to establish a new federation trust with their own Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) server,
they may instead generate their own trusted token-signing certiﬁcate. This differs from Steal Application Access Token and other similar
behaviors in that the tokens are new and forged by the adversary, rather than stolen or intercepted from legitimate users.
An adversary may gain administrative Azure AD privileges if a SAML token is forged which claims to represent a highly privileged account.
This may lead to Use Alternate Authentication Material, which may bypass multi-factor and other authentication protection mechanisms.Other sub-techniques of Forge Web Credentials (2)
[1]
[2]
[3]
[4]
[4]
Version PermalinkID: T1606.002
Sub-technique of:  T1606

Tactic: Credential Access

Platforms: Azure AD, Google Workspace, IaaS, Oﬃce 365, SaaS, Windows
Contributors: Blake Strom, Microsoft 365 Defender; Jack Burns, HubSpot; Oleg Kolesnikov, Securonix
Version: 1.2
Created: 17 December 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 19 September 2023
[5]
[6][7]3/22/24, 3:46 PM Forge Web Credentials: SAML Tokens, Sub-technique T1606.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1606/002/ 4/4Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1015 Active Directory
ConﬁgurationFor containing the impact of a previously forged SAML token, rotate the token-signing AD FS certiﬁcate
in rapid succession twice, which will invalidate any tokens generated using the previous certiﬁcate.
M1047 Audit Enable advanced auditing on AD FS. Check the success and failure audit options in the AD FS
Management snap-in. Enable Audit Application Generated events on the AD FS farm via Group Policy
Object.
M1026 Privileged Account
ManagementRestrict permissions and access to the AD FS server to only originate from privileged access
workstations.
M1018 User Account
ManagementEnsure that user accounts with administrative rights follow best practices, including use of privileged
access workstations, Just in Time/Just Enough Administration (JIT/JEA), and strong authentication.
Reduce the number of users that are members of highly privileged Directory Roles.
Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0028 Logon Session Logon Session
CreationMonitor for logins using SAML tokens which do not have corresponding 4769 and
1200 events in the domain. These logins may occur on any on-premises resources
as well as from any cloud environment that trusts the certiﬁcate.
Logon Session
MetadataConsider modifying SAML responses to include custom elements for each service
provider. Monitor these custom elements in service provider access logs to detect any
anomalous requests.
DS0002 User Account User Account
AuthenticationMonitor for user authentication attempts, when requesting access tokens to services,
that failed because of Conditional Access Policies (CAP). Some SAML tokens
features, such as the location of a user, may not be as easy to claim.
DS0006 Web CredentialWeb Credential
CreationMonitor for creation of access tokens using SAML tokens which do not have
corresponding 4769 and 1200 events in the domain.
Web Credential
UsageMonitor for the use of access tokens to access services such as email that were
created using SAML tokens which do not have corresponding 1202 events (i.e. "The
Federation Service validated a new credential") in the domain.
References[8]
[9]
[9]
[4]
[10]
[4]
[10]
[10]
[10]
1. Lambert, J. (2020, December 13). Important steps for
customers to protect themselves from recent nation-state
cyberattacks. Retrieved December 17, 2020.
2. Microsoft. (2020, December 14). Conﬁgurable token lifetimes
in Microsoft Identity Platform. Retrieved December 22, 2020.
3. Reiner, S. (2017, November 21). Golden SAML: Newly
Discovered Attack Technique Forges Authentication to Cloud
Apps. Retrieved December 17, 2020.
4. MSRC. (2020, December 13). Customer Guidance on Recent
Nation-State Cyber Attacks. Retrieved December 17, 2020.
5. Dr. Nestori Syynimaa. (2018, October 25). AADInternals.
Retrieved February 18, 2022.. MSRC. (2020, December 13). Customer Guidance on Recent
Nation-State Cyber Attacks. Retrieved December 30, 2020.
7. Secureworks CTU. (n.d.). IRON RITUAL. Retrieved February 24,
2022.
. Mandiant. (2021, January 19). Remediation and Hardening
Strategies for Microsoft 365 to Defend Against UNC2452.
Retrieved January 22, 2021.
9. Bierstock, D., Baker, A. (2019, March 21). I am AD FS and So
Can You. Retrieved December 17, 2020.
10. Sygnia. (2020, December). Detection and Hunting of Golden
SAML Attack. Retrieved January 6, 2021.