3/22/24, 3:48 PM Permission Groups Discovery: Local Groups, Sub-technique T1069.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1069/001/ 1/6Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:48 PM Permission Groups Discovery: Local Groups, Sub-technique T1069.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1069/001/ 2/6Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Permission Groups Discovery>Local Groups3/22/24, 3:48 PM Permission Groups Discovery: Local Groups, Sub-technique T1069.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1069/001/ 3/6Permission Groups Discovery: Local Groups
Adversaries may attempt to ﬁnd local system groups and permission settings. The knowledge of local system permission groups can help
adversaries determine which groups exist and which users belong to a particular group. Adversaries may use this information to determine
which users have elevated permissions, such as the users found within the local administrators group.
Commands such as net localgroup of the Net utility, dscl . -list /Groups on macOS, and groups on Linux can list local groups.Other sub-techniques of Permission Groups Discovery (3)
Version PermalinkID: T1069.001
Sub-technique of:  T1069

Tactic: Discovery

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS
Contributors: Harshal Tupsamudre, Qualys; Miriam Wiesner, @miriamxyra, Microsoft Security
Version: 1.2
Created: 12 March 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 07 April 20233/22/24, 3:48 PM Permission Groups Discovery: Local Groups, Sub-technique T1069.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1069/001/ 4/6Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0018 admin@338 admin@338 actors used the following command following exploitation of a machine with LOWBALL
malware to list local groups: net localgroup administrator >> %temp%\download
S0521 BloodHound BloodHound can collect information about local groups and members.
C0015 C0015 During C0015, the threat actors used the command net localgroup "adminstrator" to identify
accounts with local administrator rights.
S0572 Caterpillar
WebShellCaterpillar WebShell can obtain a list of local groups of users from a system.
G0114 Chimera Chimera has used net localgroup administrators to identify accounts with local administrative
rights.
S0154 Cobalt Strike Cobalt Strike can use net localgroup to list local groups on a system.
S0082 Emissary Emissary has the capability to execute the command net localgroup administrators .
S0091 Epic Epic gathers information on local group names.
S0696 Flagpro Flagpro has been used to execute the net localgroup administrators command on a targeted
system.
S0381 FlawedAmmyy FlawedAmmyy enumerates the privilege level of the victim during the initial infection.
S0170 Helminth Helminth has checked the local administrators group.
G1001 HEXANE HEXANE has run net localgroup to enumerate local groups.
S0201 JPIN JPIN can obtain the permissions of the victim user.
S0265 Kazuar Kazuar gathers information about local groups and members.
S0236 Kwampirs Kwampirs collects a list of users belonging to the local users and administrators groups with the
commands net localgroup administrators and net localgroup users .
S0039 Net Commands such as net group and net localgroup can be used in Net to gather information about
and manipulate groups.
G0049 OilRig OilRig has used net localgroup administrators to ﬁnd local administrators on compromised
systems.
C0012 Operation
CuckooBeesDuring Operation CuckooBees, the threat actors used the net group command as part of their
advanced reconnaissance.
C0014 Operation Wocao During Operation Wocao, threat actors used the command net localgroup administrators to list all
administrators part of a local group.
S0165 OSInfo OSInfo has enumerated the local administrators group.
S0378 PoshC2 PoshC2 contains modules, such as Get-LocAdm for enumerating permission groups.
S0184 POWRUNER POWRUNER may collect local group information by running net localgroup administrators or a
series of other commands on a victim.
S0650 QakBot QakBot can use net localgroup to enable discovery of local groups.[1]
[2]
[3]
[4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
[10][11]
[12]
[13]
[14]
[15]
[16]
[17]
[18]
[19]
[20]
[21]
[22]
[23]
[24][25]3/22/24, 3:48 PM Permission Groups Discovery: Local Groups, Sub-technique T1069.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1069/001/ 5/6ID Name Description
S0692 SILENTTRINITY SILENTTRINITY can obtain a list of local groups and members.
S0060 Sys10 Sys10 collects the group name of the logged-in user and sends it to the C2.
G0131 Tonto Team Tonto Team has used the ShowLocalGroupDetails command to identify administrator, user, and guest
accounts on a compromised host.
G0010 Turla Turla has used net localgroup and net localgroup Administrators to enumerate group
information, including members of the local administrators group.
G1017 Volt Typhoon Volt Typhoon has run net localgroup administrators in compromised environments to enumerate
accounts.
Mitigations
This type of attack technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on the abuse of system features.
Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor for executed commands and arguments that may attempt to ﬁnd local system
groups and permission settings.
DS0036 Group Group
EnumerationMonitor for logging that may suggest a list of available groups and/or their associated
settings has been extracted, ex. Windows EID 4798 and 4799.
DS0009 Process OS API
ExecutionMonitor for API calls associated with ﬁnding local system groups and permission settings,
such as NetLocalGroupEnum. Other API calls relevant to Local Group discovery include
NetQueryDisplayInformation and NetGetDisplayInformationIndex.
Note: Most EDR tools do not support direct monitoring of API calls due to the sheer volume of
calls produced by an endpoint but may have alerts or events that are based on abstractions of
OS API calls. Dynamic malware analysis tools (i.e., sandboxes) can be used to trace the
execution, including OS API calls, for a single PE binary.
Process
CreationMonitor newly executed processes that may attempt to ﬁnd local system groups and
permission settings.
Note: Event IDs are for Sysmon (Event ID 1 - process creation) and Windows Security Log
(Event ID 4688 - a new process has been created). The logic in the Analytic looks for any
instances of net.exe used for local user/group discovery; although this utility is not normally
used for benign purposes, such usage by system administrator actions may trigger false
positives.
Analytic 1 - Suspicious Processes
processes = filter processes where ( (event\_id == "1" OR event\_id == "4688")
AND exe = "net.exe" AND ( command\_line=" net user" OR command\_line=" net group"
OR command\_line=" net localgroup " OR command\_line=" get-localgroup " OR
command\_line=" get-ADPrincipalGroupMembership\*" )[26]
[27]
[28]
[29]
[30]3/22/24, 3:48 PM Permission Groups Discovery: Local Groups, Sub-technique T1069.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1069/001/ 6/6References
1. FireEye Threat Intelligence. (2015, December 1). China-based
Cyber Threat Group Uses Dropbox for Malware
Communications and Targets Hong Kong Media Outlets.
Retrieved December 4, 2015.
2. Red Team Labs. (2018, April 24). Hidden Administrative
Accounts: BloodHound to the Rescue. Retrieved October 28,
2020.
3. DFIR Report. (2021, November 29). CONTInuing the Bazar
Ransomware Story. Retrieved September 29, 2022.
4. ClearSky Cyber Security. (2021, January). “Lebanese Cedar”
APT Global Lebanese Espionage Campaign Leveraging Web
Servers. Retrieved February 10, 2021.
5. Jansen, W . (2021, January 12). Abusing cloud services to ﬂy
under the radar. Retrieved January 19, 2021.
. Strategic Cyber LLC. (2020, November 5). Cobalt Strike:
Advanced Threat Tactics for Penetration Testers. Retrieved
April 13, 2021.
7. Falcone, R. and Miller-Osborn, J. (2016, February 3). Emissary
Trojan Changelog: Did Operation Lotus Blossom Cause It to
Evolve?. Retrieved February 15, 2016.
. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis Team. (2014,
August 06). The Epic Turla Operation: Solving some of the
mysteries of Snake/Uroboros. Retrieved November 7, 2018.
9. Hada, H. (2021, December 28). Flagpro The new malware
used by BlackTech. Retrieved March 25, 2022.
10. Proofpoint Staff. (2018, March 7). Leaked Ammyy Admin
Source Code Turned into Malware. Retrieved May 28, 2019.
11. Financial Security Institute. (2020, February 28). Proﬁling of
TA505 Threat Group That Continues to Attack the Financial
Sector. Retrieved July 14, 2022.
12. Unit 42. (2017, December 15). Unit 42 Playbook Viewer.
Retrieved December 20, 2017.
13. Kayal, A. et al. (2021, October). LYCEUM REBORN:
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE IN THE MIDDLE EAST. Retrieved
June 14, 2022.
14. Windows Defender Advanced Threat Hunting Team. (2016,
April 29). PLATINUM: Targeted attacks in South and
Southeast Asia. Retrieved February 15, 2018.
15. Levene, B, et al. (2017, May 03). Kazuar: Multiplatform
Espionage Backdoor with API Access. Retrieved July 17, 2018.1. Symantec Security Response Attack Investigation Team.
(2018, April 23). New Orangeworm attack group targets the
healthcare sector in the U.S., Europe, and Asia. Retrieved May
8, 2018.
17. Savill, J. (1999, March 4). Net.exe reference. Retrieved
September 22, 2015.
1. Falcone, R. and Lee, B.. (2016, May 26). The OilRig Campaign:
Attacks on Saudi Arabian Organizations Deliver Helminth
Backdoor. Retrieved May 3, 2017.
19. Cybereason Nocturnus. (2022, May 4). Operation CuckooBees:
Deep-Dive into Stealthy Winnti Techniques. Retrieved
September 22, 2022.
20. Dantzig, M. v., Schamper, E. (2019, December 19). Operation
Wocao: Shining a light on one of China’s hidden hacking
groups. Retrieved October 8, 2020.
21. Symantec Security Response. (2016, September 6). Buckeye
cyberespionage group shifts gaze from US to Hong Kong.
Retrieved September 26, 2016.
22. Nettitude. (2018, July 23). Python Server for PoshC2.
Retrieved April 23, 2019.
23. Sardiwal, M, et al. (2017, December 7). New Targeted Attack in
the Middle East by APT34, a Suspected Iranian Threat Group,
Using CVE-2017-11882 Exploit. Retrieved December 20, 2017.
24. Kuzmenko, A. et al. (2021, September 2). QakBot technical
analysis. Retrieved September 27, 2021.
25. Keneﬁck, I. et al. (2022, October 12). Black Basta Ransomware
Gang Inﬁltrates Networks via QAKBOT, Brute Ratel, and Cobalt
Strike. Retrieved February 6, 2023.
2. Salvati, M. (2019, August 6). SILENTTRINITY Modules.
Retrieved March 24, 2022.
27. Baumgartner, K., Golovkin, M.. (2015, May). The MsnMM
Campaigns: The Earliest Naikon APT Campaigns. Retrieved
April 10, 2019.
2. Daniel Lughi, Jaromir Horejsi. (2020, October 2). Tonto Team -
Exploring the TTPs of an advanced threat actor operating a
large infrastructure. Retrieved October 17, 2021.
29. Faou, M. (2020, May). From Agent.btz to ComRAT v4: A ten-
year journey. Retrieved June 15, 2020.
30. NSA et al. (2023, May 24). People's Republic of China State-
Sponsored Cyber Actor Living off the Land to Evade Detection.
Retrieved July 27, 2023.