3/22/24, 3:35 PM Obtain Capabilities: Exploits, Sub-technique T1588.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1588/005/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:35 PM Obtain Capabilities: Exploits, Sub-technique T1588.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1588/005/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Obtain Capabilities>Exploits3/22/24, 3:35 PM Obtain Capabilities: Exploits, Sub-technique T1588.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1588/005/ 3/4Obtain Capabilities: Exploits
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0094 Kimsuky Kimsuky has obtained exploit code for various CVEs.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1056 Pre-
compromiseThis technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on behaviors performed
outside of the scope of enterprise defenses and controls.
Detection
Much of this activity will take place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection of this behavior diﬃcult. Detection
efforts may be focused on behaviors relating to the use of exploits (i.e. Exploit Public-Facing Application, Exploitation for Client Execution,
Exploitation for Privilege Escalation, Exploitation for Defense Evasion, Exploitation for Credential Access, Exploitation of Remote Services,
and Application or System Exploitation).Adversaries may buy, steal, or download exploits that can be used during targeting. An exploit takes advantage of a bug or vulnerability in
order to cause unintended or unanticipated behavior to occur on computer hardware or software. Rather than developing their own exploits,
an adversary may ﬁnd/modify exploits from online or purchase them from exploit vendors.
In addition to downloading free exploits from the internet, adversaries may purchase exploits from third-party entities. Third-party entities
can include technology companies that specialize in exploit development, criminal marketplaces (including exploit kits), or from individuals.
 In addition to purchasing exploits, adversaries may steal and repurpose exploits from third-party entities (including other adversaries).
An adversary may monitor exploit provider forums to understand the state of existing, as well as newly discovered, exploits. There is usually
a delay between when an exploit is discovered and when it is made public. An adversary may target the systems of those known to conduct
exploit research and development in order to gain that knowledge for use during a subsequent operation.
Adversaries may use exploits during various phases of the adversary lifecycle (i.e. Exploit Public-Facing Application, Exploitation for Client
Execution, Exploitation for Privilege Escalation, Exploitation for Defense Evasion, Exploitation for Credential Access, Exploitation of Remote
Services, and Application or System Exploitation).Other sub-techniques of Obtain Capabilities (6)
[1][2][3]
[4][5] [2]
Version PermalinkID: T1588.005
Sub-technique of:  T1588

Tactic: Resource Development

Platforms: PRE
Version: 1.0
Created: 01 October 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 15 April 2021
[6]3/22/24, 3:35 PM Obtain Capabilities: Exploits, Sub-technique T1588.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1588/005/ 4/4References
1. Offensive Security. (n.d.). Exploit Database. Retrieved October
15, 2020.
2. Temperton, J. (2015, August 10). Hacking Team zero-day used
in new Darkhotel attacks. Retrieved March 9, 2017.
3. Nicole Perlroth and David E. Sanger. (2013, July 12). Nations
Buying as Hackers Sell Flaws in Computer Code. Retrieved
March 9, 2017.4. Bill Marczak and John Scott-Railton. (2016, August 24). The
Million Dollar Dissident: NSO Group’s iPhone Zero-Days used
against a UAE Human Rights Defender. Retrieved December
12, 2016.
5. Zetter, K. (2019, October 3). Researchers Say They Uncovered
Uzbekistan Hacking Operations Due to Spectacularly Bad
OPSEC. Retrieved October 15, 2020.
. KISA. (n.d.). Phishing Target Reconnaissance and Attack
Resource Analysis Operation Muzabi. Retrieved March 7,
2022.