3/22/24, 3:43 PM Indicator Removal: Network Share Connection Removal, Sub-technique T1070.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1070/005/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:43 PM Indicator Removal: Network Share Connection Removal, Sub-technique T1070.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1070/005/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Indicator Removal>Network Share Connection Removal3/22/24, 3:43 PM Indicator Removal: Network Share Connection Removal, Sub-technique T1070.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1070/005/ 3/4Indicator Removal: Network Share Connection Removal
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0260 InvisiMole InvisiMole can disconnect previously connected remote drives.
S0039 Net The net use \system\share /delete command can be used in Net to remove an established
connection to a network share.
S0400 RobbinHood RobbinHood disconnects all network shares from the computer with the command net use \* /DELETE
/Y.
G0027 Threat Group-
3390Threat Group-3390 has detached network shares after exﬁltrating ﬁles, likely to evade detection.
Mitigations
This type of attack technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on the abuse of system features.Adversaries may remove share connections that are no longer useful in order to clean up traces of their operation. Windows shared drive and
SMB/Windows Admin Shares connections can be removed when no longer needed. Net is an example utility that can be used to remove
network share connections with the net use \system\share /delete command. Other sub-techniques of Indicator Removal (9)
[1]
Version PermalinkID: T1070.005
Sub-technique of:  T1070

Tactic: Defense Evasion

Platforms: Windows

System Requirements: Established network share connection to a remote system. Level of access depends on permissions of the
account used.

Defense Bypassed: Host forensic analysis
Version: 1.1
Created: 31 January 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 13 April 2023
[2]
[1]
[3]
[4]3/22/24, 3:43 PM Indicator Removal: Network Share Connection Removal, Sub-technique T1070.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1070/005/ 4/4Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments of net use commands associated with
establishing and removing remote shares over SMB, including following best practices
for detection of Windows Admin Shares.
DS0029 Network TraﬃcNetwork Traﬃc
ContentMonitoring for SMB traﬃc between systems may also be captured and decoded to
look for related network share session and ﬁle transfer activity.
DS0009 Process Process Creation Monitor for newly constructed processes and/or command line execution that can be
used to remove network share connections via the net.exe process.
Note: Event IDs are for Sysmon (Event ID 1 - process create) and Windows Security
Log (Event ID 4688 - a new process has been created). The Analytic is oriented around
looking for various methods of removing network shares via the command line, which
is otherwise a rare event.
Analytic 1: Network Share Connection Removal
target\_processes = filter processes where ( (event\_id == "1" OR event\_id
== "4688") AND (exe == "C:\Windows\System32\net.exe" AND command\_line ==
"delete") OR command\_line=" Remove-SmbShare " OR command\_line=" Remove-
FileShare " )
DS0002 User Account User Account
AuthenticationMonitoring for Windows authentication logs are also useful in determining when
authenticated network shares are established and by which account, and can be used
to correlate network share activity to other events to investigate potentially malicious
activity.
References
1. Microsoft. (n.d.). Net Use. Retrieved November 25, 2016.
2. Hromcová, Z. (2018, June 07). InvisiMole: Surprisingly
equipped spyware, undercover since 2013. Retrieved July 10,
2018.3. Lee, S. (2019, May 17). CB TAU Threat Intelligence
Notiﬁcation: RobbinHood Ransomware Stops 181 Windows
Services Before Encryption. Retrieved July 29, 2019.
4. Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2017, June 27). BRONZE
UNION Cyberespionage Persists Despite Disclosures.
Retrieved July 13, 2017.