3/22/24, 3:53 PM Network Denial of Service: Direct Network Flood, Sub-technique T1498.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1498/001/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:53 PM Network Denial of Service: Direct Network Flood, Sub-technique T1498.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1498/001/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Network Denial of Service>Direct Network Flood3/22/24, 3:53 PM Network Denial of Service: Direct Network Flood, Sub-technique T1498.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1498/001/ 3/4Network Denial of Service: Direct Network Flood
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1037 Filter
Network
TraﬃcWhen ﬂood volumes exceed the capacity of the network connection being targeted, it is typically necessary to
intercept the incoming traﬃc upstream to ﬁlter out the attack traﬃc from the legitimate traﬃc. Such defenses
can be provided by the hosting Internet Service Provider (ISP) or by a 3rd party such as a Content Delivery
Network (CDN) or providers specializing in DoS mitigations.
Depending on ﬂood volume, on-premises ﬁltering may be possible by blocking source addresses sourcing the
attack, blocking ports that are being targeted, or blocking protocols being used for transport.
As immediate response may require rapid engagement of 3rd parties, analyze the risk associated to critical
resources being affected by Network DoS attacks and create a disaster recovery plan/business continuity plan
to respond to incidents.Adversaries may attempt to cause a denial of service (DoS) by directly sending a high-volume of network traﬃc to a target. This DoS attack
may also reduce the availability and functionality of the targeted system(s) and network. Direct Network Floods are when one or more
systems are used to send a high-volume of network packets towards the targeted service's network. Almost any network protocol may be
used for ﬂooding. Stateless protocols such as UDP or ICMP are commonly used but stateful protocols such as TCP can be used as well.
Botnets are commonly used to conduct network ﬂooding attacks against networks and services. Large botnets can generate a signiﬁcant
amount of traﬃc from systems spread across the global Internet. Adversaries may have the resources to build out and control their own
botnet infrastructure or may rent time on an existing botnet to conduct an attack. In some of the worst cases for distributed DoS (DDoS), so
many systems are used to generate the ﬂood that each one only needs to send out a small amount of traﬃc to produce enough volume to
saturate the target network. In such circumstances, distinguishing DDoS traﬃc from legitimate clients becomes exceedingly diﬃcult. Botnets
have been used in some of the most high-proﬁle DDoS ﬂooding attacks, such as the 2012 series of incidents that targeted major US banks.Other sub-techniques of Network Denial of Service (2)
[1]
Version PermalinkID: T1498.001
Sub-technique of:  T1498

Tactic: Impact

Platforms: Azure AD, Google Workspace, IaaS, Linux, Oﬃce 365, SaaS, Windows, macOS

Impact Type: Availability
Version: 1.3
Created: 02 March 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 30 March 2023
[2]
[2]
[2]3/22/24, 3:53 PM Network Denial of Service: Direct Network Flood, Sub-technique T1498.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1498/001/ 4/4Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0029 Network TraﬃcNetwork Traﬃc
FlowMonitor network data for uncommon data ﬂows. Processes utilizing the network that do
not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are
suspicious.
DS0013 Sensor Health Host Status Detection of Network DoS can sometimes be achieved before the traﬃc volume is
suﬃcient to cause impact to the availability of the service, but such response time
typically requires very aggressive monitoring and responsiveness or services provided by
an upstream network service provider. Monitor for logging, messaging, and other artifacts
highlighting the health of host sensors (ex: metrics, errors, and/or exceptions from
logging applications)
References
1. Preet Bharara, US Attorney. (2016, March 24). Retrieved April
23, 2019.2. Meintanis, S., Revuelto, V., Socha, K.. (2017, March 10). DDoS
Overview and Response Guide. Retrieved April 24, 2019.