3/22/24, 3:47 PM OS Credential Dumping: Proc Filesystem, Sub-technique T1003.007 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1003/007/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:47 PM OS Credential Dumping: Proc Filesystem, Sub-technique T1003.007 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1003/007/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>OS Credential Dumping>Proc Filesystem3/22/24, 3:47 PM OS Credential Dumping: Proc Filesystem, Sub-technique T1003.007 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1003/007/ 3/4OS Credential Dumping: Proc Filesystem
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0349 LaZagne LaZagne can use the /maps and /mem ﬁles to identify regex patterns to dump cleartext
passwords from the browser's process memory.
S0179 MimiPenguin MimiPenguin can use the /maps and /mem ﬁle to search for regex patterns and dump the
process memory.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1027 Password Policies Ensure that root accounts have complex, unique passwords across all systems on the network.
M1026 Privileged Account
ManagementFollow best practices in restricting access to privileged accounts to avoid hostile programs
from accessing sensitive information.Adversaries may gather credentials from the proc ﬁlesystem or /proc . The proc ﬁlesystem is a pseudo-ﬁlesystem used as an interface to
kernel data structures for Linux based systems managing virtual memory. For each process, the /proc//maps ﬁle shows how memory
is mapped within the process’s virtual address space. And /proc//mem , exposed for debugging purposes, provides access to the
process’s virtual address space.
When executing with root privileges, adversaries can search these memory locations for all processes on a system that contain patterns that
are indicative of credentials, such as looking for ﬁxed strings in memory structures or cached hashes. When running without privileged
access, processes can still view their own virtual memory locations. Some services or programs may save credentials in clear text inside the
process’s memory.
If running as or with the permissions of a web browser, a process can search the /maps & /mem locations for common website credential
patterns (that can also be used to ﬁnd adjacent memory within the same structure) in which hashes or cleartext credentials may be located.Other sub-techniques of OS Credential Dumping (8)
[1][2]
[3][4]
Version PermalinkID: T1003.007
Sub-technique of:  T1003

Tactic: Credential Access

Platforms: Linux
Contributors: Tim (Wadhwa-)Brown
Version: 1.1
Created: 11 February 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 15 April 2023
[5][1]
[3][1]3/22/24, 3:47 PM OS Credential Dumping: Proc Filesystem, Sub-technique T1003.007 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1003/007/ 4/4Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that may gather credentials from information
stored in the Proc ﬁlesystem or /proc .
DS0022 File File Access Monitor for unexpected access to passwords and hashes stored in memory, processes must
open a maps ﬁle in the /proc ﬁlesystem for the process being analyzed. This ﬁle is stored
under the path /proc/\/maps , where the \ directory is the unique pid of the program being
interrogated for such authentication data. The AuditD monitoring tool, which ships stock in
many Linux distributions, can be used to watch for hostile processes opening this ﬁle in the
proc ﬁle system, alerting on the pid, process name, and arguments of such programs.
References
1. Huseyin Can YUCEEL & Picus Labs. (2022, March 22).
Retrieved March 31, 2023.
2. baeldung. (2022, April 8). Understanding the Linux
/proc/id/maps File. Retrieved March 31, 2023.
3. Gregal, H. (2017, May 12). MimiPenguin. Retrieved December
5, 2017.4. Carlos Polop. (2023, March 5). Linux Privilege Escalation.
Retrieved March 31, 2023.
5. Zanni, A. (n.d.). The LaZagne Project !!!. Retrieved December
14, 2018.