3/22/24, 3:53 PM Disk Wipe: Disk Structure Wipe, Sub-technique T1561.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1561/002/ 1/5Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:53 PM Disk Wipe: Disk Structure Wipe, Sub-technique T1561.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1561/002/ 2/5Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Disk Wipe>Disk Structure Wipe3/22/24, 3:53 PM Disk Wipe: Disk Structure Wipe, Sub-technique T1561.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1561/002/ 3/5Disk Wipe: Disk Structure Wipe
Adversaries may corrupt or wipe the disk data structures on a hard drive necessary to boot a system; targeting speciﬁc critical systems or in
large numbers in a network to interrupt availability to system and network resources.
Adversaries may attempt to render the system unable to boot by overwriting critical data located in structures such as the master boot record
(MBR) or partition table. The data contained in disk structures may include the initial executable code for loading an operating
system or the location of the ﬁle system partitions on disk. If this information is not present, the computer will not be able to load an
operating system during the boot process, leaving the computer unavailable. Disk Structure Wipe may be performed in isolation, or along
with Disk Content Wipe if all sectors of a disk are wiped.
On a network devices, adversaries may reformat the ﬁle system using Network Device CLI commands such as format .
To maximize impact on the target organization, malware designed for destroying disk structures may have worm-like features to propagate
across a network by leveraging other techniques like Valid Accounts, OS Credential Dumping, and SMB/Windows Admin Shares.Other sub-techniques of Disk Wipe (2)
[1][2][3][4][5]
[6]
[1][2][3][4]
Version PermalinkID: T1561.002
Sub-technique of:  T1561

Tactic: Impact

Platforms: Linux, Network, Windows, macOS

Impact Type: Availability
Contributors: Austin Clark, @c2defense
Version: 1.1
Created: 20 February 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 14 April 20233/22/24, 3:53 PM Disk Wipe: Disk Structure Wipe, Sub-technique T1561.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1561/002/ 4/5Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0067 APT37 APT37 has access to destructive malware that is capable of overwriting a machine's Master Boot Record
(MBR).
G0082 APT38 APT38 has used a custom MBR wiper named BOOT WRECK to render systems inoperable.
S0693 CaddyWiper CaddyWiper has the ability to destroy information about a physical drive's partitions including the MBR,
GPT, and partition entries.
S0697 HermeticWiper HermeticWiper has the ability to corrupt disk partitions, damage the Master Boot Record (MBR), and
overwrite the Master File Table (MFT) of all available physical drives.
S0607 KillDisk KillDisk overwrites the ﬁrst sector of the Master Boot Record with "0x00".
G0032 Lazarus Group Lazarus Group malware SHARPKNOT overwrites and deletes the Master Boot Record (MBR) on the victim's
machine and has possessed MBR wiper malware since at least 2009.
S0364 RawDisk RawDisk was used in Shamoon to help overwrite components of disk structure like the MBR and disk
partitions.
G0034 Sandworm
TeamSandworm Team has used the BlackEnergy KillDisk component to corrupt the infected system's master
boot record.
S0140 Shamoon Shamoon has been seen overwriting features of disk structure such as the MBR.
S0380 StoneDrill StoneDrill can wipe the master boot record of an infected computer.
S0689 WhisperGate WhisperGate can overwrite the Master Book Record (MBR) on victim systems with a malicious 16-bit
bootloader.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1053 Data
BackupConsider implementing IT disaster recovery plans that contain procedures for taking regular data backups that
can be used to restore organizational data. Ensure backups are stored off system and is protected from
common methods adversaries may use to gain access and destroy the backups to prevent recovery.[7][8]
[9]
[10][11]
[12][13][14][15]
[16]
[17][18]
[3][5]
[19][20]
[1][2][3][5]
[21]
[22][23][24][25][26][27]
[28]3/22/24, 3:53 PM Disk Wipe: Disk Structure Wipe, Sub-technique T1561.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1561/002/ 5/5Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that may corrupt or wipe the disk data
structures on a hard drive necessary to boot a system; targeting speciﬁc critical systems or in
large numbers in a network to interrupt availability to system and network resources.
DS0016 Drive Drive Access Monitor for newly constructed drive letters or mount points to a data storage device for
attempts to write to sensitive locations like the partition boot sector, master boot record, disk
partition table, or BIOS parameter block/superblock.
Drive
ModiﬁcationMonitor for changes made to drive letters or mount points of data storage devices for
attempts to read to sensitive locations like the partition boot sector, master boot record, disk
partition table, or BIOS parameter block/superblock.
DS0027 Driver Driver Load Monitor for unusual kernel driver installation activity may corrupt or wipe the disk data
structures on a hard drive necessary to boot a system; targeting speciﬁc critical systems or in
large numbers in a network to interrupt availability to system and network resources.
DS0009 Process Process
CreationMonitor newly executed processes that may corrupt or wipe the disk data structures on a
hard drive necessary to boot a system; targeting speciﬁc critical systems or in large numbers
in a network to interrupt availability to system and network resources.
References
1. Symantec. (2012, August 16). The Shamoon Attacks.
Retrieved March 14, 2019.
2. FireEye. (2016, November 30). FireEye Responds to Wave of
Destructive Cyber Attacks in Gulf Region. Retrieved January
11, 2017.
3. Falcone, R.. (2016, November 30). Shamoon 2: Return of the
Disttrack Wiper. Retrieved January 11, 2017.
4. Kaspersky Lab. (2017, March 7). From Shamoon to StoneDrill:
Wipers attacking Saudi organizations and beyond. Retrieved
March 14, 2019.
5. Falcone, R. (2018, December 13). Shamoon 3 Targets Oil and
Gas Organization. Retrieved March 14, 2019.
. Cisco. (2022, August 16). format - Cisco IOS Conﬁguration
Fundamentals Command Reference. Retrieved July 13, 2022.
7. FireEye. (2018, February 20). APT37 (Reaper): The Overlooked
North Korean Actor. Retrieved March 1, 2018.
. Mercer, W., Rascagneres, P. (2018, January 16). Korea In The
Crosshairs. Retrieved May 21, 2018.
9. FireEye. (2018, October 03). APT38: Un-usual Suspects.
Retrieved November 6, 2018.
10. ESET. (2022, March 15). CaddyWiper: New wiper malware
discovered in Ukraine. Retrieved March 23, 2022.
11. Malhotra, A. (2022, March 15). Threat Advisory: CaddyWiper.
Retrieved March 23, 2022.
12. Guerrero-Saade, J. (2022, February 23). HermeticWiper | New
Destructive Malware Used In Cyber Attacks on Ukraine.
Retrieved March 25, 2022.
13. Symantec Threat Hunter Team. (2022, February 24). Ukraine:
Disk-wiping Attacks Precede Russian Invasion. Retrieved
March 25, 2022.
14. Thomas, W. et al. (2022, February 25). CrowdStrike Falcon
Protects from New Wiper Malware Used in Ukraine
Cyberattacks. Retrieved March 25, 2022.15. Dani, M. (2022, March 1). Ukrainian Targets Hit by
HermeticWiper, New Datawiper Malware. Retrieved March 25,
2022.
1. Fernando Merces, Byron Gelera, Martin Co. (2018, June 7).
KillDisk Variant Hits Latin American Finance Industry.
Retrieved January 12, 2021.
17. US-CERT. (2018, March 09). Malware Analysis Report (MAR) -
10135536.11.WHITE. Retrieved June 13, 2018.
1. Novetta Threat Research Group. (2016, February 24).
Operation Blockbuster: Unraveling the Long Thread of the
Sony Attack. Retrieved February 25, 2016.
19. US-CERT. (2016, February 25). ICS Alert (IR-ALERT-H-16-056-
01) Cyber-Attack Against Ukrainian Critical Infrastructure.
Retrieved June 10, 2020.
20. Cherepanov, A.. (2017, June 30). TeleBots are back: Supply
chain attacks against Ukraine. Retrieved June 11, 2020.
21. Security Response attack Investigation Team. (2019, March
27). Elﬁn: Relentless Espionage Group Targets Multiple
Organizations in Saudi Arabia and U.S.. Retrieved April 10,
2019.
22. MSTIC. (2022, January 15). Destructive malware targeting
Ukrainian organizations. Retrieved March 10, 2022.
23. Crowdstrike. (2022, January 19). Technical Analysis of the
WhisperGate Malicious Bootloader. Retrieved March 10, 2022.
24. Cybereason Nocturnus. (2022, February 15). Cybereason vs.
WhisperGate and HermeticWiper. Retrieved March 10, 2022.
25. Falcone, R. et al.. (2022, January 20). Threat Brief: Ongoing
Russia and Ukraine Cyber Conﬂict. Retrieved March 10, 2022.
2. Biasini, N. et al.. (2022, January 21). Ukraine Campaign
Delivers Defacement and Wipers, in Continued Escalation.
Retrieved March 14, 2022.
27. S2W. (2022, January 18). Analysis of Destructive Malware
(WhisperGate) targeting Ukraine. Retrieved March 14, 2022.
2. Ready.gov. (n.d.). IT Disaster Recovery Plan. Retrieved March
15, 2019.