3/22/24, 3:51 PM Application Layer Protocol: File Transfer Protocols, Sub-technique T1071.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1071/002/ 1/5Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:51 PM Application Layer Protocol: File Transfer Protocols, Sub-technique T1071.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1071/002/ 2/5Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Application Layer Protocol>File Transfer Protocols3/22/24, 3:51 PM Application Layer Protocol: File Transfer Protocols, Sub-technique T1071.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1071/002/ 3/5Application Layer Protocol: File Transfer Protocols
Adversaries may communicate using application layer protocols associated with transferring ﬁles to avoid detection/network ﬁltering by
blending in with existing traﬃc. Commands to the remote system, and often the results of those commands, will be embedded within the
protocol traﬃc between the client and server.
Protocols such as SMB, FTP, FTPS, and TFTP that transfer ﬁles may be very common in environments. Packets produced from these
protocols may have many ﬁelds and headers in which data can be concealed. Data could also be concealed within the transferred ﬁles. An
adversary may abuse these protocols to communicate with systems under their control within a victim network while also mimicking normal,
expected traﬃc.Other sub-techniques of Application Layer Protocol (4)
Version PermalinkID: T1071.002
Sub-technique of:  T1071

Tactic: Command and Control

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS
Version: 1.1
Created: 15 March 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 01 October 20233/22/24, 3:51 PM Application Layer Protocol: File Transfer Protocols, Sub-technique T1071.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1071/002/ 4/5Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0096 APT41 APT41 used exploit payloads that initiate download via ftp.
S0438 Attor Attor has used FTP protocol for C2 communication.
S1081 BADHATCH BADHATCH can emulate an FTP server to connect to actor-controlled C2 servers.
S0465 CARROTBALL CARROTBALL has the ability to use FTP in C2 communications.
S0154 Cobalt Strike Cobalt Strike can conduct peer-to-peer communication over Windows named pipes encapsulated in the
SMB protocol. All protocols use their standard assigned ports.
S1088 Disco Disco can use SMB to transfer ﬁles.
G0035 Dragonﬂy Dragonﬂy has used SMB for C2.
S0201 JPIN JPIN can communicate over FTP.
S0265 Kazuar Kazuar uses FTP and FTPS to communicate with the C2 server.
G0094 Kimsuky Kimsuky has used FTP to download additional malware to the target machine.
S0409 Machete Machete uses FTP for Command & Control.
S0699 Mythic Mythic supports SMB-based peer-to-peer C2 proﬁles.
S0353 NOKKI NOKKI has used FTP for C2 communications.
C0006 Operation
HoneybeeDuring Operation Honeybee, the threat actors had the ability to use FTP for C2.
S0428 PoetRAT PoetRAT has used FTP for C2 communications.
S0019 Regin The Regin malware platform supports many standard protocols, including SMB.
S0596 ShadowPad ShadowPad has used FTP for C2 communications.
S1089 SharpDisco SharpDisco has the ability to transfer data between SMB shares.
G0083 SilverTerrier SilverTerrier uses FTP for C2 communications.
S0464 SYSCON SYSCON has the ability to use FTP in C2 communications.
S0161 XAgentOSX XAgentOSX contains the ftpUpload function to use the FTPManager:uploadFile method to upload ﬁles
from the target system.
S0412 ZxShell ZxShell has used FTP for C2 connections.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1031 Network Intrusion
PreventionNetwork intrusion detection and prevention systems that use network signatures to identify traﬃc for
speciﬁc adversary malware can be used to mitigate activity at the network level.[1]
[2]
[3]
[4]
[5][6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]
[12][13][14]
[15]
[16]
[17]
[18]
[19]
[20]
[7]
[21]
[22][4]
[23]
[24]3/22/24, 3:51 PM Application Layer Protocol: File Transfer Protocols, Sub-technique T1071.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1071/002/ 5/5Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0029 Network TraﬃcNetwork Traﬃc
ContentMonitor and analyze traﬃc patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s),
leveraging SSL/TLS inspection for encrypted traﬃc, that do not follow the expected
protocol standards and traﬃc ﬂows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to
established ﬂows, gratuitous or anomalous traﬃc patterns, anomalous syntax, or
structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect
anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traﬃc
patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of ﬁles that do not normally initiate connections
for respective protocol(s)).
Network Traﬃc
FlowMonitor and analyze traﬃc ﬂows that do not follow the expected protocol standards and
traﬃc ﬂows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established ﬂows, or
gratuitous or anomalous traﬃc patterns). Consider correlation with process monitoring
and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line
arguments associated to traﬃc patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of ﬁles that do
not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).
References
1. Glyer, C, et al. (2020, March). This Is Not a Test: APT41
Initiates Global Intrusion Campaign Using Multiple Exploits.
Retrieved April 28, 2020.
2. Hromcova, Z. (2019, October). AT COMMANDS, TOR-BASED
COMMUNICATIONS: MEET ATTOR, A FANTASY CREATURE
AND ALSO A SPY PLATFORM. Retrieved May 6, 2020.
3. Vrabie, V., et al. (2021, March 10). FIN8 Returns with Improved
BADHATCH Toolkit. Retrieved September 8, 2021.
4. McCabe, A. (2020, January 23). The Fractured Statue
Campaign: U.S. Government Agency Targeted in Spear-
Phishing Attacks. Retrieved June 2, 2020.
5. Strategic Cyber LLC. (2017, March 14). Cobalt Strike Manual.
Retrieved May 24, 2017.
. Mavis, N. (2020, September 21). The Art and Science of
Detecting Cobalt Strike. Retrieved April 6, 2021.
7. Faou, M. (2023, August 10). MoustachedBouncer: Espionage
against foreign diplomats in Belarus. Retrieved September 25,
2023.
. US-CERT. (2018, March 16). Alert (TA18-074A): Russian
Government Cyber Activity Targeting Energy and Other Critical
Infrastructure Sectors. Retrieved June 6, 2018.
9. Windows Defender Advanced Threat Hunting Team. (2016,
April 29). PLATINUM: Targeted attacks in South and
Southeast Asia. Retrieved February 15, 2018.
10. Levene, B, et al. (2017, May 03). Kazuar: Multiplatform
Espionage Backdoor with API Access. Retrieved July 17, 2018.
11. Kim, J. et al. (2019, October). KIMSUKY GROUP: TRACKING
THE KING OF THE SPEAR PHISHING. Retrieved November 2,
2020.
12. ESET. (2019, July). MACHETE JUST GOT SHARPER
Venezuelan government institutions under attack. Retrieved
September 13, 2019.13. The Cylance Threat Research Team. (2017, March 22). El
Machete's Malware Attacks Cut Through LATAM. Retrieved
September 13, 2019.
14. kate. (2020, September 25). APT-C-43 steals Venezuelan
military secrets to provide intelligence support for the
reactionaries — HpReact campaign. Retrieved November 20,
2020.
15. Thomas, C. (n.d.). Mythc Documentation. Retrieved March 25,
2022.
1. Grunzweig, J., Lee, B. (2018, September 27). New KONNI
Malware attacking Eurasia and Southeast Asia. Retrieved
November 5, 2018.
17. Sherstobitoff, R. (2018, March 02). McAfee Uncovers
Operation Honeybee, a Malicious Document Campaign
Targeting Humanitarian Aid Groups. Retrieved May 16, 2018.
1. Mercer, W. Rascagneres, P. Ventura, V. (2020, October 6).
PoetRAT: Malware targeting public and private sector in
Azerbaijan evolves . Retrieved April 9, 2021.
19. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research and Analysis Team. (2014,
November 24). THE REGIN PLATFORM NATION-STATE
OWNAGE OF GSM NETWORKS. Retrieved December 1, 2014.
20. Kaspersky Lab. (2017, August). ShadowPad: popular server
management software hit in supply chain attack. Retrieved
March 22, 2021.
21. Unit42. (2016). SILVERTERRIER: THE RISE OF NIGERIAN
BUSINESS EMAIL COMPROMISE. Retrieved November 13,
2018.
22. Grunzweig, J. and Wilhoit, K. (2018, November 29). The
Fractured Block Campaign: CARROTBAT Used to Deliver
Malware Targeting Southeast Asia. Retrieved June 2, 2020.
23. Robert Falcone. (2017, February 14). XAgentOSX: Sofacy's
Xagent macOS Tool. Retrieved July 12, 2017.
24. Allievi, A., et al. (2014, October 28). Threat Spotlight: Group 72,
Opening the ZxShell. Retrieved September 24, 2019.