3/22/24, 3:50 PM Archive Collected Data: Archive via Utility, Sub-technique T1560.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1560/001/ 1/8Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:50 PM Archive Collected Data: Archive via Utility, Sub-technique T1560.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1560/001/ 2/8Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Archive Collected Data>Archive via Utility3/22/24, 3:50 PM Archive Collected Data: Archive via Utility, Sub-technique T1560.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1560/001/ 3/8Archive Collected Data: Archive via Utility
Adversaries may use utilities to compress and/or encrypt collected data prior to exﬁltration. Many utilities include functionalities to
compress, encrypt, or otherwise package data into a format that is easier/more secure to transport.
Adversaries may abuse various utilities to compress or encrypt data before exﬁltration. Some third party utilities may be preinstalled, such as
tar on Linux and macOS or zip on Windows systems.
On Windows, diantz or makecab may be used to package collected ﬁles into a cabinet (.cab) ﬁle. diantz may also be used to download
and compress ﬁles from remote locations (i.e. Remote Data Staging). xcopy on Windows can copy ﬁles and directories with a variety of
options. Additionally, adversaries may use certutil to Base64 encode collected data before exﬁltration.
Adversaries may use also third party utilities, such as 7-Zip, WinRAR, and WinZip, to perform similar activities.Other sub-techniques of Archive Collected Data (3)
[1]
[2][3][4]
Version PermalinkID: T1560.001
Sub-technique of:  T1560

Tactic: Collection

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS
Contributors: Mark Wee; Mayan Arora aka Mayan Mohan
Version: 1.3
Created: 20 February 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 15 September 20233/22/24, 3:50 PM Archive Collected Data: Archive via Utility, Sub-technique T1560.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1560/001/ 4/8Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0622 AppleSeed AppleSeed can zip and encrypt data collected on a target system.
G0006 APT1 APT1 has used RAR to compress ﬁles before moving them outside of the victim network.
G0007 APT28 APT28 has used a variety of utilities, including WinRAR, to archive collected data with password
protection.
G0022 APT3 APT3 has used tools to compress data before exﬁlling it.
G0064 APT33 APT33 has used WinRAR to compress data prior to exﬁl.
G0087 APT39 APT39 has used WinRAR and 7-Zip to compress an archive stolen data.
G0096 APT41 APT41 created a RAR archive of targeted ﬁles for exﬁltration.
G0143 Aquatic Panda Aquatic Panda has used WinRAR to compress memory dumps prior to exﬁltration.
G0060 BRONZE BUTLER BRONZE BUTLER has compressed data into password-protected RAR archives prior to exﬁltration.
C0026 C0026 During C0026, the threat actors used WinRAR to collect documents on targeted systems. The threat
actors appeared to only exﬁltrate ﬁles created after January 1, 2021.
S0274 Calisto Calisto uses the zip -r command to compress the data collected on the local system.
S1043 ccf32 ccf32 has used xcopy \\\c$\users\public\path.7z c:\users\public\bin\
.7z /H /Y to archive collected ﬁles.
S0160 certutil certutil may be used to Base64 encode collected data.
G0114 Chimera Chimera has used gzip for Linux OS and a modiﬁed RAR software to archive data on Windows hosts.
G0052 CopyKittens CopyKittens uses ZPP, a .NET console program, to compress ﬁles with ZIP.
S0212 CORALDECK CORALDECK has created password-protected RAR, WinImage, and zip archives to be exﬁltrated.
S0538 Crutch Crutch has used the WinRAR utility to compress and encrypt stolen ﬁles.
S0187 Daserf Daserf hides collected data in password-protected .rar archives.
S0062 DustySky DustySky can compress ﬁles via RAR while staging data to be exﬁltrated.
G1006 Earth Lusca Earth Lusca has used WinRAR to compress stolen ﬁles into an archive prior to exﬁltration.
G1016 FIN13 FIN13 has compressed the dump output of compromised credentials with a 7zip binary.
G0061 FIN8 FIN8 has used RAR to compress collected data before exﬁltration.
G0117 Fox Kitten Fox Kitten has used 7-Zip to archive data.
C0007 FunnyDream During FunnyDream, the threat actors used 7zr.exe to add collected ﬁles to an archive.
G0093 GALLIUM GALLIUM used WinRAR to compress and encrypt stolen data prior to exﬁltration.
G0084 Gallmaker Gallmaker has used WinZip, likely to archive data prior to exﬁltration.[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]
[12]
[13][14]
[15]
[16][17]
[18]
[19][20]
[21][22]
[23]
[24]
[25]
[26]
[27]
[28]
[29]
[30]
[31]
[18]
[32][33]
[34]3/22/24, 3:50 PM Archive Collected Data: Archive via Utility, Sub-technique T1560.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1560/001/ 5/8ID Name Description
G0125 HAFNIUM HAFNIUM has used 7-Zip and WinRAR to compress stolen ﬁles for exﬁltration.
S1022 IceApple IceApple can encrypt and compress ﬁles using Gzip prior to exﬁltration.
S0278 iKitten iKitten will zip up the /Library/Keychains directory before exﬁltrating it.
S0260 InvisiMole InvisiMole uses WinRAR to compress data that is intended to be exﬁltrated.
G0004 Ke3chang Ke3chang is known to use 7Zip and RAR with passwords to encrypt data prior to exﬁltration.
G0094 Kimsuky Kimsuky has used QuickZip to archive stolen ﬁles before exﬁltration.
G0059 Magic Hound Magic Hound has used gzip to archive dumped LSASS process memory and RAR to stage and
compress local folders.
G0045 menuPass menuPass has compressed ﬁles before exﬁltration using TAR and RAR.
S0339 Micropsia Micropsia creates a RAR archive based on collected ﬁles on the victim's machine.
G0069 MuddyWater MuddyWater has used the native Windows cabinet creation tool, makecab.exe, likely to compress
stolen data to be uploaded.
G0129 Mustang Panda Mustang Panda has used RAR to create password-protected archives of collected documents prior to
exﬁltration.
S0340 Octopus Octopus has compressed data before exﬁltrating it using a tool called Abbrevia.
S0439 Okrum Okrum was seen using a RAR archiver tool to compress/decompress data.
S0264 OopsIE OopsIE compresses collected ﬁles with GZipStream before sending them to its C2 server.
C0012 Operation
CuckooBeesDuring Operation CuckooBees, the threat actors used the Makecab utility to compress and a version of
WinRAR to create password-protected archives of stolen data prior to exﬁltration.
C0022 Operation Dream
JobDuring Operation Dream Job, Lazarus Group archived victim's data into a RAR ﬁle.
C0006 Operation
HoneybeeDuring Operation Honeybee, the threat actors uses zip to pack collected ﬁles before exﬁltration.
C0014 Operation Wocao During Operation Wocao, threat actors archived collected ﬁles with WinRAR, prior to exﬁltration.
S0428 PoetRAT PoetRAT has the ability to compress ﬁles with zip.
S0378 PoshC2 PoshC2 contains a module for compressing data using ZIP.
S0441 PowerShower PowerShower has used 7Zip to compress .txt, .pdf, .xls or .doc ﬁles prior to exﬁltration.
S0196 PUNCHBUGGY PUNCHBUGGY has Gzipped information and saved it to a random temp ﬁle before exﬁl.
S0192 Pupy Pupy can compress data with Zip before sending it over C2.
S0458 Ramsay Ramsay can compress and archive collected ﬁles using WinRAR.
S1040 Rclone Rclone can compress ﬁles using gzip prior to exﬁltration.
C0024 SolarWinds
CompromiseDuring the SolarWinds Compromise, APT29 used 7-Zip to compress stolen emails into password-
protected archives prior to exﬂtration; APT29 also compressed text ﬁles into zipped archives.[35][36]
[37]
[38]
[39]
[40][41]
[42]
[43][44][45]
[46][47][48]
[49]
[50]
[51][52]
[53]
[54]
[55]
[56]
[57]
[58]
[59]
[60]
[61]
[62]
[63]
[64]
[65][66]
[67]
[68][69][70]3/22/24, 3:50 PM Archive Collected Data: Archive via Utility, Sub-technique T1560.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1560/001/ 6/8ID Name Description
G0054 Sowbug Sowbug extracted documents and bundled them into a RAR archive.
S0647 Turian Turian can use WinRAR to create a password-protected archive for ﬁles of interest.
G0010 Turla Turla has encrypted ﬁles stolen from connected USB drives into a RAR ﬁle before exﬁltration.
G1017 Volt Typhoon Volt Typhoon has archived the ntds.dit database as a multi-volume password-protected archive with 7-
Zip.
S0466 WindTail WindTail has the ability to use the macOS built-in zip utility to archive ﬁles.
G0102 Wizard Spider Wizard Spider has archived data into ZIP ﬁles on compromised machines.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1047 Audit System scans can be performed to identify unauthorized archival utilities.
Detection
ID Data SourceData ComponentDetects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments for actions that will aid in compression or
encrypting data that is collected prior to exﬁltration, such as tar.
DS0022 File File Creation Monitor newly constructed ﬁles being written with extensions and/or headers associated with
compressed or encrypted ﬁle types. Detection efforts may focus on follow-on exﬁltration
activity, where compressed or encrypted ﬁles can be detected in transit with a network
intrusion detection or data loss prevention system analyzing ﬁle headers.
DS0009 Process Process
CreationMonitor for newly constructed processes and/or command-lines that aid in compression or
encrypting data that is collected prior to exﬁltration, such as 7-Zip, WinRAR, and WinZip.
Before Exﬁltration that an adversary has Collection, it is very likely that a Archive Collected
Data will be created, so that transfer times are minimized and fewer ﬁles are transmitted.
There is variety between the tools used to compress data, but the command line usage and
context of archiving tools, such as ZIP, RAR, and 7ZIP, should be monitored.In addition to
looking for RAR or 7z program names, command line usage of 7Zip or RAR can be detected
with the ﬂag usage of "\* a \*". This is helpful, as adversaries may change program names.
Note: This analytic looks for the command line argument a, which is used by RAR. However,
there may be other programs that have this as a legitimate argument and may need to be
ﬁltered out.
Analytic 1 - Command Line Usage of Archiving Software
rar\_argument = filter processes where (command\_line == " a ")[71]
[72]
[73]
[74]
[75]
[76]3/22/24, 3:50 PM Archive Collected Data: Archive via Utility, Sub-technique T1560.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1560/001/ 7/8References
1. Living Off The Land Binaries, Scripts and Libraries (LOLBAS).
(n.d.). Diantz.exe. Retrieved October 25, 2021.
2. I. Pavlov. (2019). 7-Zip. Retrieved February 20, 2020.
3. A. Roshal. (2020). RARLAB. Retrieved February 20, 2020.
4. Corel Corporation. (2020). WinZip. Retrieved February 20,
2020.
5. Jazi, H. (2021, June 1). Kimsuky APT continues to target
South Korean government using AppleSeed backdoor.
Retrieved June 10, 2021.
. Mandiant. (n.d.). APT1 Exposing One of China’s Cyber
Espionage Units. Retrieved July 18, 2016.
7. NSA, CISA, FBI, NCSC. (2021, July). Russian GRU Conducting
Global Brute Force Campaign to Compromise Enterprise and
Cloud Environments. Retrieved July 26, 2021.
. valsmith. (2012, September 21). More on APTSim. Retrieved
September 28, 2017.
9. Security Response attack Investigation Team. (2019, March
27). Elﬁn: Relentless Espionage Group Targets Multiple
Organizations in Saudi Arabia and U.S.. Retrieved April 10,
2019.
10. Hawley et al. (2019, January 29). APT39: An Iranian Cyber
Espionage Group Focused on Personal Information. Retrieved
February 19, 2019.
11. Fraser, N., et al. (2019, August 7). Double DragonAPT41, a
dual espionage and cyber crime operation APT41. Retrieved
September 23, 2019.
12. Wiley, B. et al. (2021, December 29). OverWatch Exposes
AQUATIC PANDA in Possession of Log4Shell Exploit Tools
During Hands-on Intrusion Attempt. Retrieved January 18,
2022.
13. Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2017, October 12).
BRONZE BUTLER Targets Japanese Enterprises. Retrieved
January 4, 2018.
14. Chen, J. et al. (2019, November). Operation ENDTRADE: TICK’s
Multi-Stage Backdoors for Attacking Industries and Stealing
Classiﬁed Data. Retrieved June 9, 2020.
15. Hawley, S. et al. (2023, February 2). Turla: A Galaxy of
Opportunity. Retrieved May 15, 2023.
1. Kuzin, M., Zelensky S. (2018, July 20). Calisto Trojan for
macOS. Retrieved September 7, 2018.
17. Pantig, J. (2018, July 30). OSX.Calisto. Retrieved September 7,
2018.
1. Vrabie, V. (2020, November). Dissecting a Chinese APT
Targeting South Eastern Asian Government Institutions.
Retrieved September 19, 2022.
19. Microsoft. (2012, November 14). Certutil. Retrieved July 3,
2017.
20. LOLBAS. (n.d.). Certutil.exe. Retrieved July 31, 2019.
21. Cycraft. (2020, April 15). APT Group Chimera - APT Operation
Skeleton key Targets Taiwan Semiconductor Vendors.
Retrieved August 24, 2020.
22. Jansen, W . (2021, January 12). Abusing cloud services to ﬂy
under the radar. Retrieved January 19, 2021.
23. ClearSky Cyber Security and Trend Micro. (2017, July).
Operation Wilted Tulip: Exposing a cyber espionage
apparatus. Retrieved August 21, 2017.
24. FireEye. (2018, February 20). APT37 (Reaper): The Overlooked
North Korean Actor. Retrieved March 1, 2018.
25. Faou, M. (2020, December 2). Turla Crutch: Keeping the “back
door” open. Retrieved December 4, 2020.39. Hromcová, Z. (2018, June 07). InvisiMole: Surprisingly
equipped spyware, undercover since 2013. Retrieved July 10,
2018.
40. Villeneuve, N., Bennett, J. T., Moran, N., Haq, T., Scott, M., &
Geers, K. (2014). OPERATION “KE3CHANG”: Targeted Attacks
Against Ministries of Foreign Affairs. Retrieved November 12,
2014.
41. MSTIC. (2021, December 6). NICKEL targeting government
organizations across Latin America and Europe. Retrieved
March 18, 2022.
42. An, J and Malhotra, A. (2021, November 10). North Korean
attackers use malicious blogs to deliver malware to high-
proﬁle South Korean targets. Retrieved December 29, 2021.
43. Mandiant. (2018). Mandiant M-Trends 2018. Retrieved July 9,
2018.
44. DFIR Report. (2022, March 21). APT35 Automates Initial
Access Using ProxyShell. Retrieved May 25, 2022.
45. DFIR Report. (2021, November 15). Exchange Exploit Leads to
Domain Wide Ransomware. Retrieved January 5, 2023.
4. PwC and BAE Systems. (2017, April). Operation Cloud Hopper.
Retrieved April 5, 2017.
47. PwC and BAE Systems. (2017, April). Operation Cloud Hopper:
Technical Annex. Retrieved April 13, 2017.
4. Symantec. (2020, November 17). Japan-Linked Organizations
Targeted in Long-Running and Sophisticated Attack
Campaign. Retrieved December 17, 2020.
49. Tsarfaty, Y. (2018, July 25). Micropsia Malware. Retrieved
November 13, 2018.
50. Symantec DeepSight Adversary Intelligence Team. (2018,
December 10). Seedworm: Group Compromises Government
Agencies, Oil & Gas, NGOs, Telecoms, and IT Firms. Retrieved
December 14, 2018.
51. Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2019, December 29).
BRONZE PRESIDENT Targets NGOs. Retrieved April 13, 2021.
52. Hamzeloofard, S. (2020, January 31). New wave of PlugX
targets Hong Kong | Avira Blog. Retrieved April 13, 2021.
53. Cherepanov, A. (2018, October 4). Nomadic Octopus Cyber
espionage in Central Asia. Retrieved October 13, 2021.
54. Hromcova, Z. (2019, July). OKRUM AND KETRICAN: AN
OVERVIEW OF RECENT KE3CHANG GROUP ACTIVITY.
Retrieved May 6, 2020.
55. Lee, B., Falcone, R. (2018, February 23). OopsIE! OilRig Uses
ThreeDollars to Deliver New Trojan. Retrieved July 16, 2018.
5. Cybereason Nocturnus. (2022, May 4). Operation CuckooBees:
Deep-Dive into Stealthy Winnti Techniques. Retrieved
September 22, 2022.
57. Breitenbacher, D and Osis, K. (2020, June 17). OPERATION
IN(TER)CEPTION: Targeted Attacks Against European
Aerospace and Military Companies. Retrieved December 20,
2021.
5. Sherstobitoff, R. (2018, March 02). McAfee Uncovers
Operation Honeybee, a Malicious Document Campaign
Targeting Humanitarian Aid Groups. Retrieved May 16, 2018.
59. Dantzig, M. v., Schamper, E. (2019, December 19). Operation
Wocao: Shining a light on one of China’s hidden hacking
groups. Retrieved October 8, 2020.
0. Mercer, W, et al. (2020, April 16). PoetRAT: Python RAT uses
COVID-19 lures to target Azerbaijan public and private sectors.
Retrieved April 27, 2020.3/22/24, 3:50 PM Archive Collected Data: Archive via Utility, Sub-technique T1560.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1560/001/ 8/82. DiMaggio, J. (2016, April 28). Tick cyberespionage group
zeros in on Japan. Retrieved July 16, 2018.
27. GReAT. (2019, April 10). Gaza Cybergang Group1, operation
SneakyPastes. Retrieved May 13, 2020.
2. Chen, J., et al. (2022). Delving Deep: An Analysis of Earth
Lusca’s Operations. Retrieved July 1, 2022.
29. Sygnia Incident Response Team. (2022, January 5). TG2003:
ELEPHANT BEETLE UNCOVERING AN ORGANIZED
FINANCIAL-THEFT OPERATION. Retrieved February 9, 2023.
30. Elovitz, S. & Ahl, I. (2016, August 18). Know Your Enemy: New
Financially-Motivated & Spear-Phishing Group. Retrieved
February 26, 2018.
31. CISA. (2020, September 15). Iran-Based Threat Actor Exploits
VPN Vulnerabilities. Retrieved December 21, 2020.
32. Cybereason Nocturnus. (2019, June 25). Operation Soft Cell: A
Worldwide Campaign Against Telecommunications Providers.
Retrieved July 18, 2019.
33. MSTIC. (2019, December 12). GALLIUM: Targeting global
telecom. Retrieved January 13, 2021.
34. Symantec Security Response. (2018, October 10). Gallmaker:
New Attack Group Eschews Malware to Live off the Land.
Retrieved November 27, 2018.
35. MSTIC. (2021, March 2). HAFNIUM targeting Exchange
Servers with 0-day exploits. Retrieved March 3, 2021.
3. Gruzweig, J. et al. (2021, March 2). Operation Exchange
Marauder: Active Exploitation of Multiple Zero-Day Microsoft
Exchange Vulnerabilities. Retrieved March 3, 2021.
37. CrowdStrike. (2022, May). ICEAPPLE: A NOVEL INTERNET
INFORMATION SERVICES (IIS) POST-EXPLOITATION
FRAMEWORK. Retrieved June 27, 2022.
3. Patrick Wardle. (n.d.). Mac Malware of 2017. Retrieved
September 21, 2018.1. Nettitude. (2018, July 23). Python Server for PoshC2.
Retrieved April 23, 2019.
2. GReAT. (2019, August 12). Recent Cloud Atlas activity.
Retrieved May 8, 2020.
3. Gorelik, M.. (2019, June 10). SECURITY ALERT: FIN8 IS BACK
IN BUSINESS, TARGETING THE HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY.
Retrieved June 13, 2019.
4. Nicolas Verdier. (n.d.). Retrieved January 29, 2018.
5. Sanmillan, I.. (2020, May 13). Ramsay: A cyber‑espionage
toolkit tailored for air‑gapped networks. Retrieved May 27,
2020.
. Antiy CERT. (2020, April 20). Analysis of Ramsay components
of Darkhotel's inﬁltration and isolation network. Retrieved
March 24, 2021.
7. Nick Craig-Wood. (n.d.). Rclone syncs your ﬁles to cloud
storage. Retrieved August 30, 2022.
. Cash, D. et al. (2020, December 14). Dark Halo Leverages
SolarWinds Compromise to Breach Organizations. Retrieved
December 29, 2020.
9. MSTIC, CDOC, 365 Defender Research Team. (2021, January
20). Deep dive into the Solorigate second-stage activation:
From SUNBURST to TEARDROP and Raindrop . Retrieved
January 22, 2021.
70. CrowdStrike. (2022, January 27). Early Bird Catches the
Wormhole: Observations from the StellarParticle Campaign.
Retrieved February 7, 2022.
71. Symantec Security Response. (2017, November 7). Sowbug:
Cyber espionage group targets South American and Southeast
Asian governments. Retrieved November 16, 2017.
72. Adam Burgher. (2021, June 10). BackdoorDiplomacy:
Upgrading from Quarian to Turian. Retrieved September 1,
2021
73. Symantec DeepSight Adversary Intelligence Team. (2019,
June 20). Waterbug: Espionage Group Rolls Out Brand-New
Toolset in Attacks Against Governments. Retrieved July 8,
2019.
74. Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2023, May 24). Chinese
Cyberespionage Group BRONZE SILHOUETTE Targets U.S.
Government and Defense Organizations. Retrieved July 27,
2023.
75. Wardle, Patrick. (2019, January 15). Middle East Cyber-
Espionage analyzing WindShift's implant: OSX.WindTail (part
2). Retrieved October 3, 2019.
7. Shilko, J., et al. (2021, October 7). FIN12: The Proliﬁc
Ransomware Intrusion Threat Actor That Has Aggressively
Pursued Healthcare Targets. Retrieved June 15, 2023.