3/22/24, 3:42 PM Hide Artifacts: NTFS File Attributes, Sub-technique T1564.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/004/ 1/6Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:42 PM Hide Artifacts: NTFS File Attributes, Sub-technique T1564.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/004/ 2/6Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Hide Artifacts>NTFS File Attributes3/22/24, 3:42 PM Hide Artifacts: NTFS File Attributes, Sub-technique T1564.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/004/ 3/6Hide Artifacts: NTFS File Attributes
Adversaries may use NTFS ﬁle attributes to hide their malicious data in order to evade detection. Every New Technology File System (NTFS)
formatted partition contains a Master File Table (MFT) that maintains a record for every ﬁle/directory on the partition. Within MFT entries
are ﬁle attributes, such as Extended Attributes (EA) and Data [known as Alternate Data Streams (ADSs) when more than one Data attribute
is present], that can be used to store arbitrary data (and even complete ﬁles). 
Adversaries may store malicious data or binaries in ﬁle attribute metadata instead of directly in ﬁles. This may be done to evade some
defenses, such as static indicator scanning tools and anti-virus. Other sub-techniques of Hide Artifacts (11)
[1]
[2]
[1][3][4][5]
[6][4]
Version PermalinkID: T1564.004
Sub-technique of:  T1564

Tactic: Defense Evasion

Platforms: Windows

System Requirements: NTFS partitioned hard drive

Defense Bypassed: Anti-virus, Host forensic analysis, Signature-based detection
Contributors: Oddvar Moe, @oddvarmoe; Red Canary
Version: 1.0
Created: 13 March 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 29 March 20203/22/24, 3:42 PM Hide Artifacts: NTFS File Attributes, Sub-technique T1564.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/004/ 4/6Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0504 Anchor Anchor has used NTFS to hide ﬁles.
G0050 APT32 APT32 used NTFS alternate data streams to hide their payloads.
S0373 Astaroth Astaroth can abuse alternate data streams (ADS) to store content for malicious payloads.
S0570 BitPaymer BitPaymer has copied itself to the :bin alternate data stream of a newly created ﬁle.
S1052 DEADEYE The DEADEYE.EMBED variant of DEADEYE can embed its payload in an alternate data stream of a local
ﬁle.
S0404 esentutl esentutl can be used to read and write alternate data streams.
S0361 Expand Expand can be used to download or copy a ﬁle into an alternate data stream.
S0168 Gazer Gazer stores conﬁguration items in alternate data streams (ADSs) if the Registry is not accessible.
S0397 LoJax LoJax has loaded an embedded NTFS DXE driver to be able to access and write to NTFS partitions.
S0139 PowerDuke PowerDuke hides many of its backdoor payloads in an alternate data stream (ADS).
S0145 POWERSOURCE If the victim is using PowerShell 3.0 or later, POWERSOURCE writes its decoded payload to an alternate
data stream (ADS) named kernel32.dll that is saved in %PROGRAMDATA%\Windows\ .
S0019 Regin The Regin malware platform uses Extended Attributes to store encrypted executables.
S0476 Valak Valak has the ability save and execute ﬁles as alternate data streams (ADS).
S0612 WastedLocker WastedLocker has the ability to save and execute ﬁles as an alternate data stream (ADS).
S0027 Zeroaccess Some variants of the Zeroaccess Trojan have been known to store data in Extended Attributes.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1022 Restrict File and Directory
PermissionsConsider adjusting read and write permissions for NTFS EA, though this should be tested to
ensure routine OS operations are not impeded. [7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]
[12]
[13]
[14]
[15]
[16]
[17]
[18]
[19][20][21]
[22]
[23]
[24]3/22/24, 3:42 PM Hide Artifacts: NTFS File Attributes, Sub-technique T1564.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/004/ 5/6Detection
ID Data SourceData ComponentDetects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionThe Streams tool of Sysinternals can be used to uncover ﬁles with ADSs. The dir /r
command can also be used to display ADSs. Many PowerShell commands (such as Get-
Item, Set-Item, Remove-Item, and Get-ChildItem) can also accept a -stream parameter to
interact with ADSs. 
Analytic 1 - NTFS Alternate Data Stream Execution : System
Utilities (Powershell)
ads\_processes = filter processes where (event\_id = 1 exe =
"C:\Windows\ \powershell.exe" AND command\_line = "Invoke-CimMethod\s+-
ClassName\s+Win32\_Process\s+-MethodName\s+Create. \b(\w+(.\w+)?):(\w+(.\w+)?)|-
ep bypass\s+-\s+<. \b(\w+(.\w+)?):(\w+(.\w+)?)|-command. Get-Content. -Stream. Set-
Content. start-process . (\w+(.\w+)?)"
Analytic 2 - NTFS Alternate Data Stream Execution : System
Utilities (WMIC)
ads\_processes = filter processes where (event\_id = 1 exe =
"C:\Windows\ \wmic.exe" AND command\_line = "process call create. \"(\w+(.\w+)?):
(\w+(.\w+)?)"
Analytic 3 - NTFS Alternate Data Stream Execution : System
Utilities (rundll32)
ads\_processes = filter processes where (event\_id = 1 exe = "C:\Windows\\rundll32.exe" AND command\_line
= "\"?(\w+(.\w+)?):(\w+(.\w+)?)?\"?,\w+\|(advpack.dll\|ieadvpack.dll),RegisterOCX\s+(\w+.\w+):(\w+
(.\w+)?)\|(shdocvw.dll\|ieframe.dll),OpenURL.(\w+.\w+):(\w+(.\w+)?)"
Analytic 4 - NTFS Alternate Data Stream Execution : System
Utilities (wscript/cscript)
ads\_processes = filter processes where (event\_id = 1 exe = "C:\Windows\\wscript.exe" OR exe =
"C:\Windows\\cscript.exe)" AND command\_line = "(?<!\/)\b\w+(.\w+)?:\w+(.\w+)?$"
DS0022 File File Metadata Monitor for contextual data about a ﬁle, which may include information such as name, the
content (ex: signature, headers, or data/media), user/owner, permissions, may use NTFS ﬁle
attributes to hide their malicious data in order to evade detection. Forensic techniques exist to
identify information stored in NTFS EA. 
File
ModiﬁcationThere are many ways to create and interact with ADSs using Windows utilities. Monitor for
operations (execution, copies, etc.) with ﬁle names that contain colons. This syntax (ex:
file.ext:ads[.ext] ) is commonly associated with ADSs. For a more exhaustive
list of utilities that can be used to execute and create ADSs, see
https://gist.github.com/api0cradle/cdd2d0d0ec9abb686f0e89306e277b8f.
DS0009 Process OS API
ExecutionMonitor calls to the ZwSetEaFile and ZwQueryEaFile Windows API functions as well as
binaries used to interact with EA, and consider regularly scanning for the presence of
modiﬁed information. [25]
[4][5]
[6]
[5][26][27]
[26][27]
[1]3/22/24, 3:42 PM Hide Artifacts: NTFS File Attributes, Sub-technique T1564.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/004/ 6/6References
1. Atkinson, J. (2017, July 18). Host-based Threat Modeling &
Indicator Design. Retrieved March 21, 2018.
2. Hughes, J. (2010, August 25). NTFS File Attributes. Retrieved
March 21, 2018.
3. Microsoft. (n.d.). File Streams. Retrieved December 2, 2014.
4. Arntz, P. (2015, July 22). Introduction to Alternate Data
Streams. Retrieved March 21, 2018.
5. Marlin, J. (2013, March 24). Alternate Data Streams in NTFS.
Retrieved March 21, 2018.
. Harrell, C. (2012, December 11). Extracting ZeroAccess from
NTFS Extended Attributes. Retrieved June 3, 2016.
7. Dahan, A. et al. (2019, December 11). DROPPING ANCHOR:
FROM A TRICKBOT INFECTION TO THE DISCOVERY OF THE
ANCHOR MALWARE. Retrieved September 10, 2020.
. Dahan, A. (2017). Operation Cobalt Kitty. Retrieved December
27, 2018.
9. GReAT. (2020, July 14). The Tetrade: Brazilian banking
malware goes global. Retrieved November 9, 2020.
10. Frankoff, S., Hartley, B. (2018, November 14). Big Game
Hunting: The Evolution of INDRIK SPIDER From Dridex Wire
Fraud to BitPaymer Targeted Ransomware. Retrieved January
6, 2021.
11. Rufus Brown, Van Ta, Douglas Bienstock, Geoff Ackerman,
John Wolfram. (2022, March 8). Does This Look Infected? A
Summary of APT41 Targeting U.S. State Governments.
Retrieved July 8, 2022.
12. LOLBAS. (n.d.). Esentutl.exe. Retrieved September 3, 2019.
13. LOLBAS. (n.d.). Expand.exe. Retrieved February 19, 2019.
14. ESET. (2017, August). Gazing at Gazer: Turla’s new second
stage backdoor. Retrieved September 14, 2017.15. ESET. (2018, September). LOJAX First UEFI rootkit found in the
wild, courtesy of the Sednit group. Retrieved July 2, 2019.
1. Adair, S.. (2016, November 9). PowerDuke: Widespread Post-
Election Spear Phishing Campaigns Targeting Think Tanks
and NGOs. Retrieved January 11, 2017.
17. Brumaghin, E. and Grady, C.. (2017, March 2). Covert Channels
and Poor Decisions: The Tale of DNSMessenger. Retrieved
March 8, 2017.
1. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research and Analysis Team. (2014,
November 24). THE REGIN PLATFORM NATION-STATE
OWNAGE OF GSM NETWORKS. Retrieved December 1, 2014.
19. Salem, E. et al. (2020, May 28). VALAK: MORE THAN MEETS
THE EYE . Retrieved June 19, 2020.
20. Duncan, B. (2020, July 24). Evolution of Valak, from Its
Beginnings to Mass Distribution. Retrieved August 31, 2020.
21. Reaves, J. and Platt, J. (2020, June). Valak Malware and the
Connection to Gozi Loader ConfCrew. Retrieved August 31,
2020.
22. Walter, J.. (2020, July 23). WastedLocker Ransomware:
Abusing ADS and NTFS File Attributes. Retrieved September
14, 2021.
23. Ciubotariu, M. (2014, January 23). Trojan.Zeroaccess.C
Hidden in NTFS EA. Retrieved December 2, 2014.
24. Sander, J. (2017, October 12). Attack Step 3: Persistence with
NTFS Extended Attributes – File System Attacks. Retrieved
March 21, 2018.
25. Pravs. (2009, May 25). What you need to know about alternate
data streams in windows? Is your Data secure? Can you
restore that?. Retrieved March 21, 2018.
2. Moe, O. (2018, January 14). Putting Data in Alternate Data
Streams and How to Execute It. Retrieved June 30, 2018.
27. Moe, O. (2018, April 11). Putting Data in Alternate Data
Streams and How to Execute It - Part 2. Retrieved June 30,
2018.