3/22/24, 3:46 PM Weaken Encryption: Disable Crypto Hardware, Sub-technique T1600.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1600/002/ 1/1Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.
Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Weaken Encryption>Disable Crypto Hardware
Weaken Encryption: Disable Crypto Hardware
Mitigations
This type of attack technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on the abuse of system features.
Detection
ID Data SourceData ComponentDetects
DS0022 File File
ModiﬁcationThere is no documented method for defenders to directly identify behaviors that reduce
encryption key space. Detection efforts may be focused on closely related adversary behaviors,
such as Modify System Image and Network Device CLI. Some detection methods require
vendor support to aid in investigation.
ReferencesAdversaries disable a network device’s dedicated hardware encryption, which may enable them to leverage weaknesses in software
encryption in order to reduce the effort involved in collecting, manipulating, and exﬁltrating transmitted data.
Many network devices such as routers, switches, and ﬁrewalls, perform encryption on network traﬃc to secure transmission across
networks. Often, these devices are equipped with special, dedicated encryption hardware to greatly increase the speed of the encryption
process as well as to prevent malicious tampering. When an adversary takes control of such a device, they may disable the dedicated
hardware, for example, through use of Modify System Image, forcing the use of software to perform encryption on general processors. This
is typically used in conjunction with attacks to weaken the strength of the cipher in software (e.g., Reduce Key Space). Other sub-techniques of Weaken Encryption (2)
[1]
Version PermalinkID: T1600.002
Sub-technique of:  T1600

Tactic: Defense Evasion

Platforms: Network

Permissions Required: Administrator
Version: 1.0
Created: 19 October 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 21 October 2020
1. Omar Santos. (2020, October 19). Attackers Continue to
Target Legacy Devices. Retrieved October 20, 2020.