3/22/24, 3:33 PM Active Scanning, Technique T1595 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1595/ 1/3Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:33 PM Active Scanning, Technique T1595 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1595/ 2/3Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Active Scanning3/22/24, 3:33 PM Active Scanning, Technique T1595 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1595/ 3/3Active Scanning
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1056 Pre-
compromiseThis technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on behaviors performed
outside of the scope of enterprise defenses and controls. Efforts should focus on minimizing the amount
and sensitivity of data available to external parties.
Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0029 Network TraﬃcNetwork Traﬃc
ContentMonitor and analyze traﬃc patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that
do not follow the expected protocol standards and traﬃc ﬂows (e.g extraneous packets
that do not belong to established ﬂows, gratuitous or anomalous traﬃc patterns,
anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and
command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments
associated to traﬃc patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of ﬁles that do not normally
initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).
Network Traﬃc
FlowMonitor network data for uncommon data ﬂows. Processes utilizing the network that do
not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are
suspicious.
ReferencesAdversaries may execute active reconnaissance scans to gather information that can be used during targeting. Active scans are those where
the adversary probes victim infrastructure via network traﬃc, as opposed to other forms of reconnaissance that do not involve direct
interaction.
Adversaries may perform different forms of active scanning depending on what information they seek to gather. These scans can also be
performed in various ways, including using native features of network protocols such as ICMP. Information from these scans may reveal
opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Search Open Websites/Domains or Search Open Technical Databases), establishing
operational resources (ex: Develop Capabilities or Obtain Capabilities), and/or initial access (ex: External Remote Services or Exploit Public-
Facing Application).Sub-techniques (3)
[1][2]
Version PermalinkID: T1595
Sub-techniques:  T1595.001, T1595.002, T1595.003

Tactic: Reconnaissance

Platforms: PRE
Version: 1.0
Created: 02 October 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 08 March 2022
1. Dainotti, A. et al. (2012). Analysis of a “/0” Stealth Scan from
a Botnet. Retrieved October 20, 2020.2. OWASP Wiki. (2018, February 16). OAT-004 Fingerprinting.
Retrieved October 20, 2020.