3/22/24, 3:39 PM Event Triggered Execution, Technique T1546 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1546/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:39 PM Event Triggered Execution, Technique T1546 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1546/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Event Triggered Execution3/22/24, 3:39 PM Event Triggered Execution, Technique T1546 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1546/ 3/4Event Triggered Execution
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S1091 Pacu Pacu can set up S3 bucket notiﬁcations to trigger a malicious Lambda function when a CloudFormation template is
uploaded to the bucket. It can also create Lambda functions that trigger upon the creation of users, roles, and groups.
Mitigations
This type of attack technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on the abuse of system features.Adversaries may establish persistence and/or elevate privileges using system mechanisms that trigger execution based on speciﬁc events.
Various operating systems have means to monitor and subscribe to events such as logons or other user activity such as running speciﬁc
applications/binaries. Cloud environments may also support various functions and services that monitor and can be invoked in response to
speciﬁc cloud events.
Adversaries may abuse these mechanisms as a means of maintaining persistent access to a victim via repeatedly executing malicious code.
After gaining access to a victim system, adversaries may create/modify event triggers to point to malicious content that will be executed
whenever the event trigger is invoked.
Since the execution can be proxied by an account with higher permissions, such as SYSTEM or service accounts, an adversary may be able
to abuse these triggered execution mechanisms to escalate their privileges.Sub-techniques (16)
[1][2][3]
[4][5][6]
Version PermalinkID: T1546
Sub-techniques:  T1546.001, T1546.002, T1546.003, T1546.004, T1546.005, T1546.006, T1546.007, T1546.008, T1546.009,
T1546.010, T1546.011, T1546.012, T1546.013, T1546.014, T1546.015, T1546.016

Tactics: Privilege Escalation, Persistence

Platforms: IaaS, Linux, Oﬃce 365, SaaS, Windows, macOS
Version: 1.2
Created: 22 January 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 19 October 2022
[7]3/22/24, 3:39 PM Event Triggered Execution, Technique T1546 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1546/ 4/4Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0025 Cloud Service Cloud Service
ModiﬁcationMonitor the creation and modiﬁcation of cloud resources that may be abused for
persistence, such as functions and workﬂows monitoring cloud events.
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that may establish persistence and/or
elevate privileges using system mechanisms that trigger execution based on speciﬁc
events.
DS0022 File File Creation Monitor newly constructed ﬁles that may establish persistence and/or elevate
privileges using system mechanisms that trigger execution based on speciﬁc events.
File Metadata Monitor for contextual data about a ﬁle, which may include information such as
name, the content (ex: signature, headers, or data/media), user/owner, permissions,
etc.
File Modiﬁcation Monitor for changes made to ﬁles that may establish persistence and/or elevate
privileges using system mechanisms that trigger execution based on speciﬁc events.
DS0011 Module Module Load Monitor DLL loads by processes, speciﬁcally looking for DLLs that are not
recognized or not normally loaded into a process. Look for abnormal process
behavior that may be due to a process loading a malicious DLL. Data and events
should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead
to other activities, such as making network connections for Command and Control,
learning details about the environment through Discovery, and conducting Lateral
Movement.
DS0009 Process Process Creation Tools such as Sysinternals Autoruns can be used to detect changes to execution
triggers that could be attempts at persistence. Also look for abnormal process call
trees for execution of other commands that could relate to Discovery actions or other
techniques.
DS0024 Windows RegistryWindows
Registry Key
ModiﬁcationMonitor for changes made to windows registry keys and/or values that may
establish persistence and/or elevate privileges using system mechanisms that
trigger execution based on speciﬁc events.
DS0005 WMI WMI Creation Monitor for newly constructed WMI Objects that may establish persistence and/or
elevate privileges using system mechanisms that trigger execution based on speciﬁc
events.
References
1. Daniel Grzelak. (2016, July 9). Backdooring an AWS account.
Retrieved May 27, 2022.
2. Eric Saraga. (2022, February 2). Using Power Automate for
Covert Data Exﬁltration in Microsoft 365. Retrieved May 27,
2022.
3. Berk Veral. (2020, March 9). Real-life cybercrime stories from
DART, the Microsoft Detection and Response Team. Retrieved
May 27, 2022.
4. Ballenthin, W., et al. (2015). Windows Management
Instrumentation (WMI) Offense, Defense, and Forensics.
Retrieved March 30, 2016.5. Patrick Wardle. (2015). Malware Persistence on OS X
Yosemite. Retrieved July 10, 2017.
. Claud Xiao, Cong Zheng, Yanhui Jia. (2017, April 6). New
IoT/Linux Malware Targets DVRs, Forms Botnet. Retrieved
February 19, 2018.
7. Rhino Security Labs. (2019, August 22). Pacu. Retrieved
October 17, 2019.