3/22/24, 3:41 PM Server Software Component, Technique T1505 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1505/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:41 PM Server Software Component, Technique T1505 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1505/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Server Software Component3/22/24, 3:41 PM Server Software Component, Technique T1505 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1505/ 3/4Server Software Component
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1047 Audit Regularly check component software on critical services that adversaries may target for
persistence to verify the integrity of the systems and identify if unexpected changes have been
made.
M1045 Code Signing Ensure all application component binaries are signed by the correct application developers.
M1042 Disable or Remove
Feature or ProgramConsider disabling software components from servers when possible to prevent abuse by
adversaries.
M1026 Privileged Account
ManagementDo not allow administrator accounts that have permissions to add component software on these
services to be used for day-to-day operations that may expose them to potential adversaries on
unprivileged systems.
M1024 Restrict Registry
PermissionsConsider using Group Policy to conﬁgure and block modiﬁcations to service and other critical
server parameters in the Registry.
M1018 User Account
ManagementEnforce the principle of least privilege by limiting privileges of user accounts so only authorized
accounts can modify and/or add server software components.Adversaries may abuse legitimate extensible development features of servers to establish persistent access to systems. Enterprise server
applications may include features that allow developers to write and install software or scripts to extend the functionality of the main
application. Adversaries may install malicious components to extend and abuse server applications.Sub-techniques (5)
[1]
Version PermalinkID: T1505
Sub-techniques:  T1505.001, T1505.002, T1505.003, T1505.004, T1505.005

Tactic: Persistence

Platforms: Linux, Network, Windows, macOS
Version: 1.4
Created: 28 June 2019
Last Modiﬁed: 19 October 2022
[2]
[3]
[4]3/22/24, 3:41 PM Server Software Component, Technique T1505 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1505/ 4/4Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0015 Application Log Application
Log ContentMonitor for third-party application logging, messaging, and/or other artifacts that may
abuse legitimate extensible development features of servers to establish persistent
access to systems. Consider monitoring application logs for abnormal behavior that
may indicate suspicious installation of application software components. Log
authentication attempts to the server and any unusual traﬃc patterns to or from the
server and internal network. 
DS0022 File File Creation Consider monitoring ﬁle locations associated with the installation of new application
software components such as paths from which applications typically load such
extensible components.
File
ModiﬁcationMonitor for changes made to ﬁles that may abuse legitimate extensible development
features of servers to establish persistent access to systems.
DS0029 Network Traﬃc Network Traﬃc
ContentMonitor and analyze traﬃc patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s),
leveraging SSL/TLS inspection for encrypted traﬃc, that do not follow the expected
protocol standards and traﬃc ﬂows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to
established ﬂows, gratuitous or anomalous traﬃc patterns, anomalous syntax, or
structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect
anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traﬃc
patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of ﬁles that do not normally initiate connections
for respective protocol(s)). 
Network Traﬃc
FlowMonitor network data for uncommon data ﬂows. Processes utilizing the network that do
not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are
suspicious.
DS0009 Process Process
CreationProcess monitoring may be used to detect servers components that perform suspicious
actions such as running cmd.exe or accessing ﬁles.
References[5]
[5]
1. Adair, S., Lancaster, T., Volexity Threat Research. (2022, June
15). DriftingCloud: Zero-Day Sophos Firewall Exploitation and
an Insidious Breach. Retrieved July 1, 2022.
2. Kondratiev, A. (n.d.). Disabling dangerous PHP functions.
Retrieved July 26, 2021.
3. Microsoft. (2018, February 17). Windows System Services
Fundamentals. Retrieved March 28, 2022.4. NSA and ASD. (2020, April 3). Detect and Prevent Web Shell
Malware. Retrieved July 23, 2021.
5. US-CERT. (2015, November 13). Compromised Web Servers
and Web Shells - Threat Awareness and Guidance. Retrieved
June 8, 2016.