3/22/24, 3:32 PM Reconnaissance, Tactic TA0043 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0043/ 1/7Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Reconnaissance, Tactic TA0043 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0043/ 2/7Home>Tactics>Enterprise>Reconnaissance3/22/24, 3:32 PM Reconnaissance, Tactic TA0043 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0043/ 3/7R e c o n n a i s s a n c e
T e c h n i q u e s
Techniques: 10The adversary is trying to gather information they can use to plan future operations.
Reconnaissance consists of techniques that involve adversaries actively or passively gathering information that can be used to support
targeting. Such information may include details of the victim organization, infrastructure, or staff/personnel. This information can be
leveraged by the adversary to aid in other phases of the adversary lifecycle, such as using gathered information to plan and execute Initial
Access, to scope and prioritize post-compromise objectives, or to drive and lead further Reconnaissance efforts.
Version PermalinkID: TA0043
Created: 02 October 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 18 October 20203/22/24, 3:32 PM Reconnaissance, Tactic TA0043 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0043/ 4/7ID Name Description
T1595 Active Scanning Adversaries may execute active reconnaissance scans to gather information that can be used
during targeting. Active scans are those where the adversary probes victim infrastructure via
network traﬃc, as opposed to other forms of reconnaissance that do not involve direct interaction.
.001 Scanning IP Blocks Adversaries may scan victim IP blocks to gather information that can be used during targeting.
Public IP addresses may be allocated to organizations by block, or a range of sequential addresses.
.002 Vulnerability
ScanningAdversaries may scan victims for vulnerabilities that can be used during targeting. Vulnerability
scans typically check if the conﬁguration of a target host/application (ex: software and version)
potentially aligns with the target of a speciﬁc exploit the adversary may seek to use.
.003 Wordlist Scanning Adversaries may iteratively probe infrastructure using brute-forcing and crawling techniques. While
this technique employs similar methods to Brute Force, its goal is the identiﬁcation of content and
infrastructure rather than the discovery of valid credentials. Wordlists used in these scans may
contain generic, commonly used names and ﬁle extensions or terms speciﬁc to a particular
software. Adversaries may also create custom, target-speciﬁc wordlists using data gathered from
other Reconnaissance techniques (ex: Gather Victim Org Information, or Search Victim-Owned
Websites).
T1592 Gather Victim Host
InformationAdversaries may gather information about the victim's hosts that can be used during targeting.
Information about hosts may include a variety of details, including administrative data (ex: name,
assigned IP, functionality, etc.) as well as speciﬁcs regarding its conﬁguration (ex: operating system,
language, etc.).
.001 Hardware Adversaries may gather information about the victim's host hardware that can be used during
targeting. Information about hardware infrastructure may include a variety of details such as types
and versions on speciﬁc hosts, as well as the presence of additional components that might be
indicative of added defensive protections (ex: card/biometric readers, dedicated encryption
hardware, etc.).
.002 Software Adversaries may gather information about the victim's host software that can be used during
targeting. Information about installed software may include a variety of details such as types and
versions on speciﬁc hosts, as well as the presence of additional components that might be
indicative of added defensive protections (ex: antivirus, SIEMs, etc.).
.003 Firmware Adversaries may gather information about the victim's host ﬁrmware that can be used during
targeting. Information about host ﬁrmware may include a variety of details such as type and
versions on speciﬁc hosts, which may be used to infer more information about hosts in the
environment (ex: conﬁguration, purpose, age/patch level, etc.).
.004 Client Conﬁgurations Adversaries may gather information about the victim's client conﬁgurations that can be used during
targeting. Information about client conﬁgurations may include a variety of details and settings,
including operating system/version, virtualization, architecture (ex: 32 or 64 bit), language, and/or
time zone.
T1589 Gather Victim
Identity InformationAdversaries may gather information about the victim's identity that can be used during targeting.
Information about identities may include a variety of details, including personal data (ex: employee
names, email addresses, etc.) as well as sensitive details such as credentials.
.001 Credentials Adversaries may gather credentials that can be used during targeting. Account credentials gathered
by adversaries may be those directly associated with the target victim organization or attempt to
take advantage of the tendency for users to use the same passwords across personal and business
accounts.
.002 Email Addresses Adversaries may gather email addresses that can be used during targeting. Even if internal
instances exist, organizations may have public-facing email infrastructure and addresses for
employees.
.003 Employee Names Adversaries may gather employee names that can be used during targeting. Employee names be
used to derive email addresses as well as to help guide other reconnaissance efforts and/or craft
more-believable lures.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Reconnaissance, Tactic TA0043 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0043/ 5/7ID Name Description
T1590 Gather Victim
Network InformationAdversaries may gather information about the victim's networks that can be used during targeting.
Information about networks may include a variety of details, including administrative data (ex: IP
ranges, domain names, etc.) as well as speciﬁcs regarding its topology and operations.
.001 Domain Properties Adversaries may gather information about the victim's network domain(s) that can be used during
targeting. Information about domains and their properties may include a variety of details,
including what domain(s) the victim owns as well as administrative data (ex: name, registrar, etc.)
and more directly actionable information such as contacts (email addresses and phone numbers),
business addresses, and name servers.
.002 DNS Adversaries may gather information about the victim's DNS that can be used during targeting. DNS
information may include a variety of details, including registered name servers as well as records
that outline addressing for a target’s subdomains, mail servers, and other hosts. DNS, MX, TXT, and
SPF records may also reveal the use of third party cloud and SaaS providers, such as Oﬃce 365, G
Suite, Salesforce, or Zendesk.
.003 Network Trust
DependenciesAdversaries may gather information about the victim's network trust dependencies that can be used
during targeting. Information about network trusts may include a variety of details, including
second or third-party organizations/domains (ex: managed service providers, contractors, etc.) that
have connected (and potentially elevated) network access.
.004 Network Topology Adversaries may gather information about the victim's network topology that can be used during
targeting. Information about network topologies may include a variety of details, including the
physical and/or logical arrangement of both external-facing and internal network environments.
This information may also include speciﬁcs regarding network devices (gateways, routers, etc.) and
other infrastructure.
.005 IP Addresses Adversaries may gather the victim's IP addresses that can be used during targeting. Public IP
addresses may be allocated to organizations by block, or a range of sequential addresses.
Information about assigned IP addresses may include a variety of details, such as which IP
addresses are in use. IP addresses may also enable an adversary to derive other details about a
victim, such as organizational size, physical location(s), Internet service provider, and or where/how
their publicly-facing infrastructure is hosted.
.006 Network Security
AppliancesAdversaries may gather information about the victim's network security appliances that can be
used during targeting. Information about network security appliances may include a variety of
details, such as the existence and speciﬁcs of deployed ﬁrewalls, content ﬁlters, and
proxies/bastion hosts. Adversaries may also target information about victim network-based
intrusion detection systems (NIDS) or other appliances related to defensive cybersecurity
operations.
T1591 Gather Victim Org
InformationAdversaries may gather information about the victim's organization that can be used during
targeting. Information about an organization may include a variety of details, including the names
of divisions/departments, speciﬁcs of business operations, as well as the roles and responsibilities
of key employees.
.001 Determine Physical
LocationsAdversaries may gather the victim's physical location(s) that can be used during targeting.
Information about physical locations of a target organization may include a variety of details,
including where key resources and infrastructure are housed. Physical locations may also indicate
what legal jurisdiction and/or authorities the victim operates within.
.002 Business
RelationshipsAdversaries may gather information about the victim's business relationships that can be used
during targeting. Information about an organization’s business relationships may include a variety
of details, including second or third-party organizations/domains (ex: managed service providers,
contractors, etc.) that have connected (and potentially elevated) network access. This information
may also reveal supply chains and shipment paths for the victim’s hardware and software
resources.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Reconnaissance, Tactic TA0043 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0043/ 6/7ID Name Description
.003 Identify Business
TempoAdversaries may gather information about the victim's business tempo that can be used during
targeting. Information about an organization’s business tempo may include a variety of details,
including operational hours/days of the week. This information may also reveal times/dates of
purchases and shipments of the victim’s hardware and software resources.
.004 Identify Roles Adversaries may gather information about identities and roles within the victim organization that
can be used during targeting. Information about business roles may reveal a variety of targetable
details, including identiﬁable information for key personnel as well as what data/resources they
have access to.
T1598 Phishing for
InformationAdversaries may send phishing messages to elicit sensitive information that can be used during
targeting. Phishing for information is an attempt to trick targets into divulging information,
frequently credentials or other actionable information. Phishing for information is different from
Phishing in that the objective is gathering data from the victim rather than executing malicious
code.
.001 Spearphishing
ServiceAdversaries may send spearphishing messages via third-party services to elicit sensitive
information that can be used during targeting. Spearphishing for information is an attempt to trick
targets into divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable information.
Spearphishing for information frequently involves social engineering techniques, such as posing as
a source with a reason to collect information (ex: Establish Accounts or Compromise Accounts)
and/or sending multiple, seemingly urgent messages.
.002 Spearphishing
AttachmentAdversaries may send spearphishing messages with a malicious attachment to elicit sensitive
information that can be used during targeting. Spearphishing for information is an attempt to trick
targets into divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable information.
Spearphishing for information frequently involves social engineering techniques, such as posing as
a source with a reason to collect information (ex: Establish Accounts or Compromise Accounts)
and/or sending multiple, seemingly urgent messages.
.003 Spearphishing Link Adversaries may send spearphishing messages with a malicious link to elicit sensitive information
that can be used during targeting. Spearphishing for information is an attempt to trick targets into
divulging information, frequently credentials or other actionable information. Spearphishing for
information frequently involves social engineering techniques, such as posing as a source with a
reason to collect information (ex: Establish Accounts or Compromise Accounts) and/or sending
multiple, seemingly urgent messages.
.004 Spearphishing Voice Adversaries may use voice communications to elicit sensitive information that can be used during
targeting. Spearphishing for information is an attempt to trick targets into divulging information,
frequently credentials or other actionable information. Spearphishing for information frequently
involves social engineering techniques, such as posing as a source with a reason to collect
information (ex: Impersonation) and/or creating a sense of urgency or alarm for the recipient.
T1597 Search Closed
SourcesAdversaries may search and gather information about victims from closed sources that can be
used during targeting. Information about victims may be available for purchase from reputable
private sources and databases, such as paid subscriptions to feeds of technical/threat intelligence
data. Adversaries may also purchase information from less-reputable sources such as dark web or
cybercrime blackmarkets.
.001 Threat Intel Vendors Adversaries may search private data from threat intelligence vendors for information that can be
used during targeting. Threat intelligence vendors may offer paid feeds or portals that offer more
data than what is publicly reported. Although sensitive details (such as customer names and other
identiﬁers) may be redacted, this information may contain trends regarding breaches such as target
industries, attribution claims, and successful TTPs/countermeasures.
.002 Purchase Technical
DataAdversaries may purchase technical information about victims that can be used during targeting.
Information about victims may be available for purchase within reputable private sources and
databases, such as paid subscriptions to feeds of scan databases or other data aggregation
services. Adversaries may also purchase information from less-reputable sources such as dark web
or cybercrime blackmarkets.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Reconnaissance, Tactic TA0043 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0043/ 7/7ID Name Description
T1596 Search Open
Technical DatabasesAdversaries may search freely available technical databases for information about victims that can
be used during targeting. Information about victims may be available in online databases and
repositories, such as registrations of domains/certiﬁcates as well as public collections of network
data/artifacts gathered from traﬃc and/or scans.
.001 DNS/Passive DNS Adversaries may search DNS data for information about victims that can be used during targeting.
DNS information may include a variety of details, including registered name servers as well as
records that outline addressing for a target’s subdomains, mail servers, and other hosts.
.002 WHOIS Adversaries may search public WHOIS data for information about victims that can be used during
targeting. WHOIS data is stored by regional Internet registries (RIR) responsible for allocating and
assigning Internet resources such as domain names. Anyone can query WHOIS servers for
information about a registered domain, such as assigned IP blocks, contact information, and DNS
nameservers.
.003 Digital Certiﬁcates Adversaries may search public digital certiﬁcate data for information about victims that can be
used during targeting. Digital certiﬁcates are issued by a certiﬁcate authority (CA) in order to
cryptographically verify the origin of signed content. These certiﬁcates, such as those used for
encrypted web traﬃc (HTTPS SSL/TLS communications), contain information about the registered
organization such as name and location.
.004 CDNs Adversaries may search content delivery network (CDN) data about victims that can be used during
targeting. CDNs allow an organization to host content from a distributed, load balanced array of
servers. CDNs may also allow organizations to customize content delivery based on the requestor’s
geographical region.
.005 Scan Databases Adversaries may search within public scan databases for information about victims that can be
used during targeting. Various online services continuously publish the results of Internet
scans/surveys, often harvesting information such as active IP addresses, hostnames, open ports,
certiﬁcates, and even server banners.
T1593 Search Open
Websites/DomainsAdversaries may search freely available websites and/or domains for information about victims
that can be used during targeting. Information about victims may be available in various online
sites, such as social media, new sites, or those hosting information about business operations such
as hiring or requested/rewarded contracts.
.001 Social Media Adversaries may search social media for information about victims that can be used during
targeting. Social media sites may contain various information about a victim organization, such as
business announcements as well as information about the roles, locations, and interests of staff.
.002 Search Engines Adversaries may use search engines to collect information about victims that can be used during
targeting. Search engine services typical crawl online sites to index context and may provide users
with specialized syntax to search for speciﬁc keywords or speciﬁc types of content (i.e. ﬁletypes).
.003 Code Repositories Adversaries may search public code repositories for information about victims that can be used
during targeting. Victims may store code in repositories on various third-party websites such as
GitHub, GitLab, SourceForge, and BitBucket. Users typically interact with code repositories through
a web application or command-line utilities such as git.
T1594 Search Victim-
Owned WebsitesAdversaries may search websites owned by the victim for information that can be used during
targeting. Victim-owned websites may contain a variety of details, including names of
departments/divisions, physical locations, and data about key employees such as names, roles,
and contact info (ex: Email Addresses). These sites may also have details highlighting business
operations and relationships.