3/22/24, 3:50 PM Data Staged, Technique T1074 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1074/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:50 PM Data Staged, Technique T1074 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1074/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Data Staged3/22/24, 3:50 PM Data Staged, Technique T1074 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1074/ 3/4Data Staged
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S1020 Kevin Kevin can create directories to store logs and other collected data.
S0641 Kobalos Kobalos can write captured SSH connection credentials to a ﬁle under the /var/run directory with a .pid
extension for exﬁltration.
S1076 QUIETCANARY QUIETCANARY has the ability to stage data prior to exﬁltration.
S1019 Shark Shark has stored information in folders named U1 and U2 prior to exﬁltration.
G1017 Volt Typhoon Volt Typhoon has staged collected data in password-protected archives.
G0102 Wizard Spider Wizard Spider has collected and staged credentials and network enumeration information, using the
networkdll and psﬁn TrickBot modules.
Mitigations
This type of attack technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on the abuse of system features.Adversaries may stage collected data in a central location or directory prior to Exﬁltration. Data may be kept in separate ﬁles or combined
into one ﬁle through techniques such as Archive Collected Data. Interactive command shells may be used, and common functionality within
cmd and bash may be used to copy data into a staging location.
In cloud environments, adversaries may stage data within a particular instance or virtual machine before exﬁltration. An adversary may
Create Cloud Instance and stage data in that instance.
Adversaries may choose to stage data from a victim network in a centralized location prior to Exﬁltration to minimize the number of
connections made to their C2 server and better evade detection.Sub-techniques (2)
[1]
[2]
Version PermalinkID: T1074
Sub-techniques:  T1074.001, T1074.002

Tactic: Collection

Platforms: IaaS, Linux, Windows, macOS
Contributors: Praetorian; Shane Tully, @securitygypsy
Version: 1.4
Created: 31 May 2017
Last Modiﬁed: 20 July 2022
[3]
[4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]3/22/24, 3:50 PM Data Staged, Technique T1074 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1074/ 4/4Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments arguments for actions that could be
taken to collect and combine ﬁles. Remote access tools with built-in features may
interact directly with the Windows API to gather and copy to a location. Data may
also be acquired and staged through Windows system management tools such as
Windows Management Instrumentation and PowerShell.
DS0022 File File Access Monitor processes that appear to be reading ﬁles from disparate locations and
writing them to the same directory or ﬁle may be an indication of data being staged,
especially if they are suspected of performing encryption or compression on the
ﬁles, such as 7zip, RAR, ZIP, or zlib.
File Creation Monitor publicly writeable directories, central locations, and commonly used
staging directories (recycle bin, temp folders, etc.) to regularly check for compressed
or encrypted data that may be indicative of staging.
DS0024 Windows RegistryWindows Registry
Key ModiﬁcationConsider monitoring accesses and modiﬁcations to local storage repositories (such
as the Windows Registry), especially from suspicious processes that could be
related to malicious data collection.
References
1. PwC and BAE Systems. (2017, April). Operation Cloud Hopper.
Retrieved April 5, 2017.
2. Mandiant. (2020, February). M-Trends 2020. Retrieved April
24, 2020.
3. Kayal, A. et al. (2021, October). LYCEUM REBORN:
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE IN THE MIDDLE EAST. Retrieved
June 14, 2022.
4. M.Leveille, M., Sanmillan, I. (2021, January). A WILD
KOBALOS APPEARS Tricksy Linux malware goes after HPCs.
Retrieved August 24, 2021.5. Hawley, S. et al. (2023, February 2). Turla: A Galaxy of
Opportunity. Retrieved May 15, 2023.
. ClearSky Cyber Security . (2021, August). New Iranian
Espionage Campaign By “Siamesekitten” - Lyceum. Retrieved
June 6, 2022.
7. Microsoft Threat Intelligence. (2023, May 24). Volt Typhoon
targets US critical infrastructure with living-off-the-land
techniques. Retrieved July 27, 2023.
. John, E. and Carvey, H. (2019, May 30). Unraveling the
Spiderweb: Timelining ATT&CK Artifacts Used by GRIM
SPIDER. Retrieved May 12, 2020.