3/22/24, 3:41 PM Server Software Component: Terminal Services DLL, Sub-technique T1505.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1505/005/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:41 PM Server Software Component: Terminal Services DLL, Sub-technique T1505.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1505/005/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Server Software Component>Terminal Services DLL3/22/24, 3:41 PM Server Software Component: Terminal Services DLL, Sub-technique T1505.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1505/005/ 3/4Server Software Component: Terminal Services DLL
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1047 Audit Regularly check component software on critical services that adversaries may target for persistence
to verify the integrity of the systems and identify if unexpected changes have been made.
M1024 Restrict Registry
PermissionsConsider using Group Policy to conﬁgure and block modiﬁcations to Terminal Services parameters in
the Registry.Adversaries may abuse components of Terminal Services to enable persistent access to systems. Microsoft Terminal Services, renamed to
Remote Desktop Services in some Windows Server OSs as of 2022, enable remote terminal connections to hosts. Terminal Services allows
servers to transmit a full, interactive, graphical user interface to clients via RDP.
Windows Services that are run as a "generic" process (ex: svchost.exe ) load the service's DLL ﬁle, the location of which is stored in a
Registry entry named ServiceDll . The termsrv.dll ﬁle, typically stored in %SystemRoot%\System32\ , is the default ServiceDll value
for Terminal Services in HKLM\System\CurrentControlSet\services\TermService\Parameters\ .
Adversaries may modify and/or replace the Terminal Services DLL to enable persistent access to victimized hosts. Modiﬁcations to this
DLL could be done to execute arbitrary payloads (while also potentially preserving normal termsrv.dll functionality) as well as to simply
enable abusable features of Terminal Services. For example, an adversary may enable features such as concurrent Remote Desktop Protocol
sessions by either patching the termsrv.dll ﬁle or modifying the ServiceDll value to point to a DLL that provides increased RDP
functionality. On a non-server Windows OS this increased functionality may also enable an adversary to avoid Terminal Services
prompts that warn/log out users of a system when a new RDP session is created.Other sub-techniques of Server Software Component (5)
[1]
[2]
[3]
[4][5]
Version PermalinkID: T1505.005
Sub-technique of:  T1505

Tactic: Persistence

Platforms: Windows
Version: 1.0
Created: 28 March 2022
Last Modiﬁed: 18 April 2022
[2]3/22/24, 3:41 PM Server Software Component: Terminal Services DLL, Sub-technique T1505.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1505/005/ 4/4Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments for potential adversary actions to
modify Registry values (ex: reg.exe ) or modify/replace the legitimate
termsrv.dll .
DS0022 File File Modiﬁcation Monitor unexpected changes and/or interactions with termsrv.dll , which is
typically stored in %SystemRoot%\System32\ .
DS0011 Module Module Load Monitor module loads by the Terminal Services process (ex: svchost.exe -k
termsvcs ) for unexpected DLLs (the default is
%SystemRoot%\System32\termsrv.dll , though an adversary could also use
Match Legitimate Name or Location to potentially conceal a malicious payload).
DS0009 Process Process Creation Monitor processes with arguments that may potentially highlight adversary
actions to modify Registry values (ex: reg.exe ) or modify/replace the legitimate
termsrv.dll .
DS0024 Windows RegistryWindows Registry
Key ModiﬁcationMonitor for changes to Registry keys associated with ServiceDll and other
subkey values under
HKLM\System\CurrentControlSet\services\TermService\Parameters\ .
References
1. Microsoft. (2019, August 23). About Remote Desktop Services.
Retrieved March 28, 2022.
2. Microsoft. (2018, February 17). Windows System Services
Fundamentals. Retrieved March 28, 2022.
3. James. (2019, July 14). @James\_inthe\_box. Retrieved March
28, 2022.4. Windows OS Hub. (2021, November 10). How to Allow
Multiple RDP Sessions in Windows 10 and 11?. Retrieved
March 28, 2022.
5. Stas'M Corp. (2014, October 22). RDP Wrapper Library by
Stas'M. Retrieved March 28, 2022.