3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 1/29Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 2/29Home>Techniques>Enterprise>System Information Discovery3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 3/29System Information Discovery
An adversary may attempt to get detailed information about the operating system and hardware, including version, patches, hotﬁxes, service
packs, and architecture. Adversaries may use the information from System Information Discovery during automated discovery to shape
follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts speciﬁc actions.
Tools such as Systeminfo can be used to gather detailed system information. If running with privileged access, a breakdown of system data
can be gathered through the systemsetup conﬁguration tool on macOS. As an example, adversaries with user-level access can execute the
df -aH command to obtain currently mounted disks and associated freely available space. Adversaries may also leverage a Network
Device CLI on network devices to gather detailed system information (e.g. show version ). System Information Discovery combined with
information gathered from other forms of discovery and reconnaissance can drive payload development and concealment.
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) cloud providers such as AWS, GCP, and Azure allow access to instance and virtual machine information via
APIs. Successful authenticated API calls can return data such as the operating system platform and status of a particular instance or the
model view of a virtual machine.[1]
[2][3]
[4][5][6]
Version PermalinkID: T1082
Sub-techniques:  No sub-techniques

Tactic: Discovery

Platforms: IaaS, Linux, Network, Windows, macOS
Contributors: Austin Clark, @c2defense; Maril Vernon @shewhohacks; Praetorian
Version: 2.5
Created: 31 May 2017
Last Modiﬁed: 30 March 20233/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 4/29Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0065 4H RAT 4H RAT sends an OS version identiﬁer in its beacons.
S1028 Action RAT Action RAT has the ability to collect the hostname, OS version, and OS architecture of an infected
host.
G0018 admin@338 admin@338 actors used the following commands after exploiting a machine with LOWBALL
malware to obtain information about the OS: ver >> %temp%\download systeminfo >>
%temp%\download
S0045 ADVSTORESHELL ADVSTORESHELL can run Systeminfo to gather information about the victim.
S0331 Agent Tesla Agent Tesla can collect the system's computer name and also has the capability to collect
information on the processor, memory, OS, and video card from the system.
S1025 Amadey Amadey has collected the computer name and OS version from a compromised machine.
S0504 Anchor Anchor can determine the hostname and linux version on a compromised host.
S0584 AppleJeus AppleJeus has collected the victim host information after infection.
S0622 AppleSeed AppleSeed can identify the OS version of a targeted system.
G0026 APT18 APT18 can collect system information from the victim’s machine.
G0073 APT19 APT19 collected system architecture information. APT19 used an HTTP malware variant and a Port
22 malware variant to gather the hostname and CPU information from the victim’s machine.
G0022 APT3 APT3 has a tool that can obtain information about the local system.
G0050 APT32 APT32 has collected the OS version and computer name from victims. One of the group's backdoors
can also query the Windows Registry to gather system information, and another macOS backdoor
performs a ﬁngerprint of the machine on its ﬁrst connection to the C&C server. APT32 executed
shellcode to identify the name of the infected host.
G0067 APT37 APT37 collects the computer name, the BIOS model, and execution path.
G0082 APT38 APT38 has attempted to get detailed information about a compromised host, including the
operating system, version, patches, hotﬁxes, and service packs.
G0143 Aquatic Panda Aquatic Panda has used native OS commands to understand privilege levels and system details.
S0456 Aria-body Aria-body has the ability to identify the hostname, computer name, Windows version, processor
speed, machine GUID, and disk information on a compromised host.
S0373 Astaroth Astaroth collects the machine name and keyboard language from the system. 
S1087 AsyncRAT AsyncRAT can check the disk size through the values obtained with DeviceInfo.
S0438 Attor Attor monitors the free disk space on the system.
S1029 AuTo Stealer AuTo Stealer has the ability to collect the hostname and OS information from an infected host.
S0473 Avenger Avenger has the ability to identify the host volume ID and the OS architecture on a compromised
host.[7]
[8]
[9]
[10][11]
[12][13][14]
[15][16]
[17]
[18]
[19]
[20]
[21][22]
[23][24]
[25][26][27][28]
[29]
[30]
[31]
[32]
[33][34]
[35]
[36]
[8]
[37]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 5/29ID Name Description
S0344 Azorult Azorult can collect the machine information, system architecture, the OS version, computer name,
Windows product name, the number of CPU cores, video card information, and the system language.
S0638 Babuk Babuk can enumerate disk volumes, get disk information, and query service status.
S0414 BabyShark BabyShark has executed the ver command.
S0475 BackConﬁg BackConﬁg has the ability to gather the victim's computer name.
S0093 Backdoor.Oldrea Backdoor.Oldrea collects information about the OS and computer name.
S0031 BACKSPACE During its initial execution, BACKSPACE extracts operating system information from the infected
host.
S0245 BADCALL BADCALL collects the computer name and host name on the compromised system.
S0642 BADFLICK BADFLICK has captured victim computer name, memory space, and CPU details.
S1081 BADHATCH BADHATCH can obtain current system information from a compromised machine such as the SHELL
PID, PSVERSION , HOSTNAME , LOGONSERVER , LASTBOOTUP , UPTIME , drive information, OS
type/version, bitness, and hostname.
S0337 BadPatch BadPatch collects the OS system, OS version, MAC address, and the computer name from the
victim’s machine.
S0234 Bandook Bandook can collect information about the drives available on the system.
S0239 Bankshot Bankshot gathers system information, network addresses, disk type, disk free space, and the
operation system version.
S0534 Bazar Bazar can ﬁngerprint architecture, computer name, and OS version on the compromised host. Bazar
can also check if the Russian language is installed on the infected machine and terminate if it is
found.
S0017 BISCUIT BISCUIT has a command to collect the processor type, operation system, computer name, uptime,
and whether the system is a laptop or PC.
S0268 Bisonal Bisonal has used commands and API calls to gather system information.
S1070 Black Basta Black Basta can enumerate volumes and collect system boot conﬁguration and CPU information.
S1068 BlackCat BlackCat can obtain the computer name and UUID, and enumerate local drives.
S0089 BlackEnergy BlackEnergy has used Systeminfo to gather the OS version, as well as information on the system
conﬁguration, BIOS, the motherboard, and the processor.
S0564 BlackMould BlackMould can enumerate local drives on a compromised host.
S0520 BLINDINGCAN BLINDINGCAN has collected from a victim machine the system name, processor information, OS
version, and disk information, including type and free space available.
G0108 Blue Mockingbird Blue Mockingbird has collected hardware details for the victim's system, including CPU and memory
information.
S0657 BLUELIGHT BLUELIGHT has collected the computer name and OS version from victim machines.[38][39]
[40]
[41]
[42]
[43][44]
[45]
[46]
[47]
[48][49]
[50]
[51]
[52][53]
[54][55]
[56]
[57][58][59]
[60]
[61]
[62]
[63][64]
[65]
[66]
[67]
[68]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 6/29ID Name Description
S0486 Bonadan Bonadan has discovered the OS version, CPU model, and RAM size of the system it has been
installed on.
S0635 BoomBox BoomBox can enumerate the hostname, domain, and IP of a compromised host.
S0252 Brave Prince Brave Prince collects hard drive content and system conﬁguration information.
S0043 BUBBLEWRAP BUBBLEWRAP collects system information, including the operating system version and hostname.
S0471 build\_downer build\_downer has the ability to send system volume information to C2.
S1039 Bumblebee Bumblebee can enumerate the OS version and domain on a targeted system.
S0482 Bundlore Bundlore will enumerate the macOS version to determine which follow-on behaviors to execute using
/usr/bin/sw\_vers -productVersion .
C0017 C0017 During C0017, APT41 issued ping -n 1 ((cmd /c dir c:\|findstr Number).split()[-1]+
commands to ﬁnd the volume serial number of compromised systems.
S0693 CaddyWiper CaddyWiper can use DsRoleGetPrimaryDomainInformation to determine the role of the infected
machine. CaddyWiper can also halt execution if the compromised host is identiﬁed as a domain
controller.
S0454 Cadelspy Cadelspy has the ability to discover information about the compromised host.
S0351 Cannon Cannon can gather system information from the victim’s machine such as the OS version, machine
name, and drive information.
S0484 Carberp Carberp has collected the operating system version from the infected system.
S0348 Cardinal RAT Cardinal RAT can collect the hostname, Microsoft Windows version, and processor architecture from
a victim machine.
S0462 CARROTBAT CARROTBAT has the ability to determine the operating system of the compromised host and
whether Windows is being run with x86 or x64 architecture.
S0572 Caterpillar WebShell Caterpillar WebShell has a module to gather information from the compromrised asset, including the
computer version, computer name, IIS version, and more.
S0631 Chaes Chaes has collected system information, including the machine name and OS version.
S0674 CharmPower CharmPower can enumerate the OS version and computer name on a targeted system.
S0144 ChChes ChChes collects the victim hostname, window resolution, and Microsoft Windows version.
G0114 Chimera Chimera has used fsutil fsinfo drives , systeminfo , and vssadmin list shadows for system
information including shadow volumes and drive information.
S0667 Chrommme Chrommme has the ability to list drives and obtain the computer name of a compromised host.
S0660 Clambling Clambling can discover the hostname, computer name, and Windows version of a targeted machine.
S0106 cmd cmd can be used to ﬁnd information about the operating system.
S0244 Comnie Comnie collects the hostname of the victim machine.
G0142 Confucius Confucius has used a ﬁle stealer that can examine system drives, including those other than the C
drive.[69]
[70]
[71]
[9]
[37]
[72][73][74]
[75][3]
[76]
[77][78]
[79]
[80][81]
[82]
[83]
[84][85]
[86]
[87]
[88]
[89][90]
[91]
[92]
[93][94]
[95]
[96]
[97]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 7/29ID Name Description
S0137 CORESHELL CORESHELL collects hostname, volume serial number and OS version data from the victim and
sends the information to its C2 server.
S0046 CozyCar A system info module in CozyCar gathers information on the victim host’s conﬁguration.
S0488 CrackMapExec CrackMapExec can enumerate the system drives and associated system name.
S0115 Crimson Crimson contains a command to collect the victim PC name, disk drive information, and operating
system.
S0625 Cuba Cuba can enumerate local drives, disk type, and disk free space.
S0687 Cyclops Blink Cyclops Blink has the ability to query device information.
S0334 DarkComet DarkComet can collect the computer name, RAM used, and operating system version from the
victim’s machine.
G0012 Darkhotel Darkhotel has collected the hostname, OS version, service pack version, and the processor
architecture from the victim’s machine.
S1066 DarkTortilla DarkTortilla can obtain system information by querying the Win32\_ComputerSystem , Win32\_BIOS ,
Win32\_MotherboardDevice , Win32\_PnPEntity , and Win32\_DiskDrive WMI objects.
S0673 DarkWatchman DarkWatchman can collect the OS version, system architecture, uptime, and computer name.
S1052 DEADEYE DEADEYE can enumerate a victim computer's volume serial number and host name.
S0616 DEATHRANSOM DEATHRANSOM can enumerate logical drives on a target system.
S0354 Denis Denis collects OS information and the computer name from the victim’s machine.
S0021 Derusbi Derusbi gathers the name of the local host, version of GNU Compiler Collection (GCC), and the
system information about the CPU, machine, and operating system.
S0659 Diavol Diavol can collect the computer name and OS version from the system.
S0472 down\_new down\_new has the ability to identify the system volume information of a compromised host.
S0186 DownPaper DownPaper collects the victim host name and serial number, and then sends the information to the
C2 server.
S0384 Dridex Dridex has collected the computer name and OS architecture information from the system.
S0547 DropBook DropBook has checked for the presence of Arabic language in the infected machine's settings.
S0105 dsquery dsquery has the ability to enumerate various information, such as the operating system and host
name, for systems within a domain.
S0567 Dtrack Dtrack can collect the victim's computer name, hostname and adapter information to create a unique
identiﬁer.
S0062 DustySky DustySky extracts basic information about the operating system.
S0024 Dyre Dyre has the ability to identify the computer name, OS version, and hardware conﬁguration on a
compromised host.
S0554 Egregor Egregor can perform a language check of the infected system and can query the CPU information
(cupid).[98]
[99]
[100]
[101][102][103]
[104]
[105]
[106][107]
[108][109]
[110]
[111]
[76]
[112]
[113][114]
[115]
[116]
[37]
[117]
[118]
[119]
[76]
[120][121]
[122]
[123]
[124][125]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 8/29ID Name Description
S0081 Elise Elise executes systeminfo after initial communication is made to the remote server.
S0082 Emissary Emissary has the capability to execute ver and systeminfo commands.
S0363 Empire Empire can enumerate host system information like OS, architecture, domain name, applied patches,
and more.
S0634 EnvyScout EnvyScout can determine whether the ISO payload was received by a Windows or iOS device.
S0091 Epic Epic collects the OS version, hardware information, computer name, available system memory
status, disk space information, and system and user language settings.
S0568 EVILNUM EVILNUM can obtain the computer name from the victim's system.
S0569 Explosive Explosive has collected the computer name from the infected host.
S0181 FALLCHILL FALLCHILL can collect operating system (OS) version information, processor information, system
name, and information about installed disks from the victim.
S0512 FatDuke FatDuke can collect the user name, Windows version, computer name, and available space on discs
from a compromised host.
S0171 Felismus Felismus collects the system information, including hostname and OS version, and sends it to the
C2 server.
S0267 FELIXROOT FELIXROOT collects the victim’s computer name, processor architecture, OS version, volume serial
number, and system type.
S0679 Ferocious Ferocious can use GET.WORKSPACE in Microsoft Excel to determine the OS version of the
compromised host.
G1016 FIN13 FIN13 has collected local host information by utilizing Windows commands systeminfo , fsutil ,
and fsinfo . FIN13 has also utilized a compromised Symantex Altiris console and LanDesk account
to retrieve host information.
G0061 FIN8 FIN8 has used PowerShell Scripts to check the architecture of a compromised machine before the
selection of a 32-bit or 64-bit version of a malicious .NET loader.
S0355 Final1stspy Final1stspy obtains victim Microsoft Windows version information and CPU architecture.
S0182 FinFisher FinFisher checks if the victim OS is 32 or 64-bit.
S0381 FlawedAmmyy FlawedAmmyy can collect the victim's operating system and computer name during the initial
infection.
C0001 Frankenstein During Frankenstein, the threat actors used Empire to obtain the compromised machine's name.
S1044 FunnyDream FunnyDream can enumerate all logical drives on a targeted machine.
C0007 FunnyDream During FunnyDream, the threat actors used Systeminfo to collect information on targeted hosts.
S0410 Fysbis Fysbis has used the command ls /etc | egrep -
e"fedora\*|debian\*|gentoo\*|mandriva\*|mandrake\*|meego\*|redhat\*|lsb-\*|sun-
\*|SUSE\*|release" to determine which Linux OS version is running.
G0047 Gamaredon Group A Gamaredon Group ﬁle stealer can gather the victim's computer name and drive serial numbers to
send to a C2 server.[126]
[127]
[128][129]
[70]
[130]
[131]
[132]
[133]
[134]
[135]
[136][137]
[138]
[139][140]
[141]
[142]
[143][144]
[145]
[129]
[146]
[146]
[147]
[148][149][150]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 9/29ID Name Description
S0666 Gelsemium Gelsemium can determine the operating system and whether a targeted machine has a 32 or 64 bit
architecture.
S0460 Get2 Get2 has the ability to identify the computer name and Windows version of an infected host.
S0032 gh0st RAT gh0st RAT has gathered system architecture, processor, OS conﬁguration, and installed hardware
information.
S0249 Gold Dragon Gold Dragon collects endpoint information using the systeminfo command.
S0493 GoldenSpy GoldenSpy has gathered operating system information.
S0531 Grandoreiro Grandoreiro can collect the computer name and OS version from a compromised host.
S0237 GravityRAT GravityRAT collects the MAC address, computer name, and CPU information.
S0690 Green Lambert Green Lambert can use uname to identify the operating system name, version, and processor type.
S0417 GRIFFON GRIFFON has used a reconnaissance module that can be used to retrieve information about a
victim's computer, including the resolution of the workstation .
S0632 GrimAgent GrimAgent can collect the OS, and build version on a compromised host.
S0151 HALFBAKED HALFBAKED can obtain information about the OS, processor, and BIOS.
S0214 HAPPYWORK can collect system information, including computer name, system manufacturer, IsDebuggerPresent
state, and execution path.
S0391 HAWKBALL HAWKBALL can collect the OS version, architecture information, and computer name.
S0617 HELLOKITTY HELLOKITTY can enumerate logical drives on a target system.
S0697 HermeticWiper HermeticWiper can determine the OS version, bitness, and enumerate physical drives on a targeted
host.
G1001 HEXANE HEXANE has collected the hostname of a compromised machine.
S1027 Heyoka Backdoor Heyoka Backdoor can enumerate drives on a compromised host.
G0126 Higaisa Higaisa collected the system volume serial number, GUID, and computer name.
S0601 Hildegard Hildegard has collected the host's OS, CPU, and memory information.
S0376 HOPLIGHT HOPLIGHT has been observed collecting victim machine information like OS version, volume
information, and more.
S0431 HotCroissant HotCroissant has the ability to determine if the current user is an administrator, Windows product
name, processor name, screen resolution, and physical RAM of the infected host.
S0203 Hydraq Hydraq creates a backdoor through which remote attackers can retrieve information such as
computer name, OS version, processor speed, memory size, and CPU speed.
S1022 IceApple The IceApple Server Variable Dumper module iterates over all server variables present for the current
request and returns them to the adversary.
S0483 IcedID IcedID has the ability to identify the computer name and OS version on a compromised host.[92]
[151]
[152]
[71]
[153]
[154]
[155]
[156][157]
[158]
[159]
[160]
[161]
[162]
[112]
[163][164][165][166]
[167]
[168]
[169][170]
[171]
[172]
[173]
[174]
[175]
[176]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 10/29ID Name Description
G0100 Inception Inception has used a reconnaissance module to gather information about the operating system and
hardware on the infected host.
S0604 Industroyer Industroyer collects the victim machine’s Windows GUID.
S0259 InnaputRAT InnaputRAT gathers volume drive information and system information.
S0260 InvisiMole InvisiMole can gather information on the mapped drives, OS version, computer name, DEP policy,
memory size, and system volume serial number.
S0015 Ixeshe Ixeshe collects the computer name of the victim's system during the initial infection.
S0044 JHUHUGIT JHUHUGIT obtains a build identiﬁer as well as victim hard drive information from Windows registry
key HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\Disk\Enum . Another JHUHUGIT variant gathers
the victim storage volume serial number and the storage device name.
S0201 JPIN JPIN can obtain system information such as OS version and disk space.
S0283 jRAT jRAT collects information about the OS (version, build type, install date) as well as system up-time
upon receiving a connection from a backdoor.
S0215 KARAE KARAE can collect system information.
S0088 Kasidet Kasidet has the ability to obtain a victim's system name and operating system version.
S0265 Kazuar Kazuar gathers information on the system and local drives.
G0004 Ke3chang Ke3chang performs operating system information discovery using systeminfo and has used
implants to identify the system language and computer name.
S0585 Kerrdown Kerrdown has the ability to determine if the compromised host is running a 32 or 64 bit OS
architecture.
S0487 Kessel Kessel has collected the system architecture, OS version, and MAC address information.
S1020 Kevin Kevin can enumerate the OS version and hostname of a targeted machine.
S0387 KeyBoy KeyBoy can gather extended system information, such as information about the operating system,
disks, and memory.
S0271 KEYMARBLE KEYMARBLE has the capability to collect the computer name, language settings, the OS version,
CPU information, disk devices, and time elapsed since system start.
S0526 KGH\_SPY KGH\_SPY can collect drive information from a compromised host.
S0607 KillDisk KillDisk retrieves the hard disk name by calling the CreateFileA to \.\PHYSICALDRIVE0 API.
G0094 Kimsuky Kimsuky has enumerated drives, OS type, OS version, and other information using a script or the
"systeminfo" command.
S0250 Koadic Koadic can obtain the OS version and build, computer name, and processor architecture from a
compromised host.
S0641 Kobalos Kobalos can record the hostname and kernel version of the target machine.
S0669 KOCTOPUS KOCTOPUS has checked the OS version using wmic.exe and the find command.
S0156 KOMPROGO KOMPROGO is capable of retrieving information about the infected system.[177]
[178]
[179]
[180][181]
[182]
[183][184]
[185]
[186]
[161]
[187]
[188]
[189][190][191]
[192]
[69]
[167]
[193][194]
[195]
[196]
[197]
[198][199]
[200]
[201]
[200]
[202]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 11/29ID Name Description
S0356 KONNI KONNI can gather the OS version, architecture information, connected drives, hostname, RAM size,
and disk space information from the victim’s machine and has used cmd /c systeminfo command
to get a snapshot of the current system state of the target machine.
S1075 KOPILUWAK KOPILUWAK can discover logical drive information on compromised hosts.
S0236 Kwampirs Kwampirs collects OS version information such as registered owner details, manufacturer details,
processor type, available storage, installed patches, hostname, version info, system date, and other
system information by using the commands systeminfo , net config workstation , hostname ,
ver, set, and date /t .
G0032 Lazarus Group Several Lazarus Group malware families collect information on the type and version of the victim
OS, as well as the victim computer name and CPU information. A Destover-like variant used by
Lazarus Group also collects disk space information and sends it to its C2 server.
S0395 LightNeuron LightNeuron gathers the victim computer name using the Win32 API call GetComputerName .
S0211 Linfo Linfo creates a backdoor through which remote attackers can retrieve system information.
S0513 LiteDuke LiteDuke can enumerate the CPUID and BIOS version on a compromised system.
S0680 LitePower LitePower has the ability to list local drives and enumerate the OS architecture.
S0681 Lizar Lizar can collect the computer name from the machine,.
S0447 Lokibot Lokibot has the ability to discover the computer name and Windows product name/version.
S0451 LoudMiner LoudMiner has monitored CPU usage.
S0532 Lucifer Lucifer can collect the computer name, system architecture, default language, and processor
frequency of a compromised host.
S0409 Machete Machete collects the hostname of the target computer.
S1016 MacMa MacMa can collect information about a compromised computer, including: Hardware UUID, Mac
serial number, macOS version, and disk sizes.
S1048 macOS.OSAMiner macOS.OSAMiner can gather the device serial number and has checked to ensure there is enough
disk space using the Unix utility df.
S1060 Mafalda Mafalda can collect the computer name and enumerate all drives on a compromised host.
G0059 Magic Hound Magic Hound malware has used a PowerShell command to check the victim system architecture to
determine if it is an x64 machine. Other malware has obtained the OS version, UUID, and
computer/host name to send to the C2 server.
S0652 MarkiRAT MarkiRAT can obtain the computer name from a compromised host.
S0449 Maze Maze has checked the language of the infected system using the "GetUSerDefaultUILanguage"
function.
S1059 metaMain metaMain can collect the computer name from a compromised host.
S0455 Metamorfo Metamorfo has collected the hostname and operating system version from the compromised host.
S0688 Meteor Meteor has the ability to discover the hostname of a compromised host.[203][204][205]
[206]
[207]
[208][209][210][211][212]
[213]
[214]
[215]
[134]
[138]
[216]
[217]
[218]
[219]
[220]
[221]
[222]
[223][224]
[225][226][227]
[228]
[229]
[224]
[230][231][232]
[233]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 12/29ID Name Description
S0339 Micropsia Micropsia gathers the hostname and OS version from the victim’s machine.
S1015 Milan Milan can enumerate the targeted machine's name and GUID.
S0051 MiniDuke MiniDuke can gather the hostname on a compromised machine.
S0280 MirageFox MirageFox can collect CPU and architecture information from the victim’s machine.
S0084 Mis-Type The initial beacon packet for Mis-Type contains the operating system version and ﬁle system of the
victim.
S0083 Misdat The initial beacon packet for Misdat contains the operating system version of the victim.
S0079 MobileOrder MobileOrder has a command to upload to its C2 server victim mobile device information, including
IMEI, IMSI, SIM card serial number, phone number, Android version, and other information.
S0553 MoleNet MoleNet can collect information about the about the system.
S1026 Mongall Mongall can identify drives on compromised hosts and retrieve the hostname via gethostbyname .
S0149 MoonWind MoonWind can obtain the victim hostname, Windows version, RAM amount, number of drives, and
screen resolution.
S0284 More\_eggs More\_eggs has the capability to gather the OS version and computer name.
G1009 Moses Staff Moses Staff collected information about the infected host, including the machine names and OS
architecture.
G0069 MuddyWater MuddyWater has used malware that can collect the victim’s OS version and machine name.
S0233 MURKYTOP MURKYTOP has the capability to retrieve information about the OS.
G0129 Mustang Panda Mustang Panda has gathered system information using systeminfo .
S0205 Naid Naid collects a unique identiﬁer (UID) from a compromised host.
S0228 NanHaiShu NanHaiShu can gather the victim computer name and serial number.
S0247 NavRAT NavRAT uses systeminfo on a victim’s machine.
S0272 NDiskMonitor NDiskMonitor obtains the victim computer name and encrypts the information to send over its C2
channel.
S0630 Nebulae Nebulae can discover logical drive information including the drive type, free space, and volume
information.
S0691 Neoichor Neoichor can collect the OS version and computer name from a compromised host.
S0457 Netwalker Netwalker can determine the system architecture it is running on to choose which version of the DLL
to use.
S0198 NETWIRE NETWIRE can discover and collect victim system information.
S0385 njRAT njRAT enumerates the victim operating system and computer name during the initial infection.
S0353 NOKKI NOKKI can gather information on drives and the operating system on the victim’s machine.[234][235]
[236][237]
[134]
[238]
[239]
[239]
[240]
[119]
[168]
[241]
[242][243]
[244]
[245][246]
[247][248][249]
[250]
[251]
[252]
[253]
[254]
[255]
[256]
[191]
[257]
[258]
[259]
[260]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 13/29ID Name Description
S0644 ObliqueRAT ObliqueRAT has the ability to check for blocklisted computer names on infected endpoints.
S0346 OceanSalt OceanSalt can collect the computer name from the system.
S0340 Octopus Octopus can collect system drive information, the computer name, the size of the disk, OS version,
and OS architecture information.
G0049 OilRig OilRig has run hostname and systeminfo on a victim.
S0439 Okrum Okrum can collect computer name, locale information, and information about the OS and
architecture.
S0264 OopsIE OopsIE checks for information on the CPU fan, temperature, mouse, hard disk, and motherboard as
part of its anti-VM checks.
C0012 Operation
CuckooBeesDuring Operation CuckooBees, the threat actors used the systeminfo command to gather details
about a compromised system.
C0006 Operation Honeybee During Operation Honeybee, the threat actors collected the computer name, OS, and other system
information using cmd /c systeminfo > %temp%\ temp.ini .
C0014 Operation Wocao During Operation Wocao, threat actors discovered the local disks attached to the system and their
hardware information including manufacturer and model, as well as the OS versions of systems
connected to a targeted network.
S0229 Orz Orz can gather the victim OS version and whether it is 64 or 32 bit.
S0165 OSInfo OSInfo discovers information about the infected machine.
S0402 OSX/Shlayer OSX/Shlayer has collected the IOPlatformUUID, session UID, and the OS version using the command
sw\_vers -productVersion .
S0352 OSX\_OCEANLOTUS.D OSX\_OCEANLOTUS.D collects processor information, memory information, computer name,
hardware UUID, serial number, and operating system version. OSX\_OCEANLOTUS.D has used the
ioreg command to gather some of this information.
S0208 Pasam Pasam creates a backdoor through which remote attackers can retrieve information such as
hostname and free disk space.
G0040 Patchwork Patchwork collected the victim computer name, OS version, and architecture type and sent the
information to its C2 server. Patchwork also enumerated all available drives on the victim's machine.
S0556 Pay2Key Pay2Key has the ability to gather the hostname of the victim machine.
S0587 Penquin Penquin can report the ﬁle system type and disk space of a compromised host to C2.
S0048 PinchDuke PinchDuke gathers system conﬁguration information.
S1031 PingPull PingPull can retrieve the hostname of a compromised host.
S0501 PipeMon PipeMon can collect and send OS version and computer name as a part of its C2 beacon.
S0124 Pisloader Pisloader has a command to collect victim system information, including the system name and OS
version.
S0254 PLAINTEE PLAINTEE collects general system enumeration data about the infected machine and checks the OS
version.[261]
[262]
[263]
[264][265][266][267]
[268]
[269]
[270]
[271]
[272]
[253]
[23]
[273][274]
[275][276][3]
[277]
[278][255]
[279]
[280]
[281]
[282]
[283]
[284]
[285]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 14/29ID Name Description
S0428 PoetRAT PoetRAT has the ability to gather information about the compromised host.
S0453 Pony Pony has collected the Service Pack, language, and region information to send to the C2.
S0216 POOR AIM POOR AIM can identify system information, including battery status.
S0378 PoshC2 PoshC2 contains modules, such as Get-ComputerInfo , for enumerating common system
information.
S0139 PowerDuke PowerDuke has commands to get information about the victim's name, build, version, serial number,
and memory usage.
S0441 PowerShower PowerShower has collected system information on the infected host.
S0223 POWERSTATS POWERSTATS can retrieve OS name/architecture and computer/domain name information from
compromised hosts.
S0184 POWRUNER POWRUNER may collect information about the system by running hostname and systeminfo on a
victim.
S0113 Prikormka A module in Prikormka collects information from the victim about Windows OS version, computer
name, battery info, and physical memory.
S0238 Proxysvc Proxysvc collects the OS version, country name, MAC address, computer name, physical memory
statistics, and volume information for all drives on the system.
S0196 PUNCHBUGGY PUNCHBUGGY can gather system information such as computer names.
S0192 Pupy Pupy can grab a system’s information including the OS version, architecture, etc.
S0650 QakBot QakBot can collect system information including the OS version and domain on a compromised
host.
S0262 QuasarRAT QuasarRAT can gather system information from the victim’s machine including the OS type.
S0458 Ramsay Ramsay can detect system information--including disk names, total space, and remaining space--to
create a hardware proﬁle GUID which acts as a system identiﬁer for operators.
S0241 RATANKBA RATANKBA gathers information about the OS architecture, OS name, and OS version/Service pack.
S0662 RCSession RCSession can gather system information from a compromised host.
S0172 Reaver Reaver collects system information from the victim, including CPU speed, computer name, volume
serial number, ANSI code page, OEM code page identiﬁer for the OS, Microsoft Windows version, and
memory information.
S0153 RedLeaves RedLeaves can gather extended system information including the hostname, OS version number,
platform, memory information, time elapsed since system startup, and CPU information.
S0125 Remsec Remsec can obtain the OS version information, computer name, processor architecture, machine
role, and OS edition.
S0379 Revenge RAT Revenge RAT collects the CPU information, OS information, and system language.
S0496 REvil REvil can identify the username, machine name, system language, keyboard layout, OS version, and
system drive information on a compromised host.
S0433 Rifdoor Rifdoor has the ability to identify the Windows version on the compromised host.[286]
[287]
[161]
[288]
[289]
[290]
[291][292]
[293]
[294]
[212]
[295]
[296]
[297][298][299]
[300]
[301][302]
[303][304]
[305]
[306]
[90][307]
[308]
[309]
[310][311][312][313][313][314][315][316]
[317]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 15/29ID Name Description
S0448 Rising Sun Rising Sun can detect the computer name, operating system, and drive information, including drive
type, total number of bytes on disk, total number of free bytes on disk, and name of a speciﬁed
volume.
G0106 Rocke Rocke has used uname -m to collect the name and information about the infected system's kernel.
S0270 RogueRobin RogueRobin gathers BIOS versions and manufacturers, the number of CPU cores, the total physical
memory, and the computer name.
S0240 ROKRAT ROKRAT can gather the hostname and the OS version to ensure it doesn’t run on a Windows XP or
Windows Server 2003 systems.
S1078 RotaJakiro RotaJakiro executes a set of commands to collect device information, including uname . Another
example is the cat /etc/\*release | uniq command used to collect the current OS distribution.
S1073 Royal Royal can use GetNativeSystemInfo and GetLogicalDrives to enumerate system processors
and logical drives.
S0148 RTM RTM can obtain the computer name, OS version, and default language identiﬁer.
S0253 RunningRAT RunningRAT gathers the OS version, logical drives information, processor information, and volume
information.
S0446 Ryuk Ryuk has called GetLogicalDrives to emumerate all mounted drives, and GetDriveTypeW to
determine the drive type.
S0085 S-Type The initial beacon packet for S-Type contains the operating system version and ﬁle system of the
victim.
S1018 Saint Bot Saint Bot can identify the OS version, CPU, and other details from a victim's machine.
G0034 Sandworm Team Sandworm Team used a backdoor to enumerate information about the infected system's operating
system.
S1085 Sardonic Sardonic has the ability to collect the computer name, CPU manufacturer name, and C:\ drive serial
number from a compromised machine. Sardonic also has the ability to execute the ver and
systeminfo commands.
S0461 SDBbot SDBbot has the ability to identify the OS version, OS bit information and computer name.
S0382 ServHelper ServHelper will attempt to enumerate Windows version and system architecture.
S0596 ShadowPad ShadowPad has discovered system information including memory status, CPU frequency, OS
versions, and volume serial numbers.
S0140 Shamoon Shamoon obtains the victim's operating system version and keyboard layout and sends the
information to the C2 server.
S1019 Shark Shark can collect the GUID of a targeted machine.
S1089 SharpDisco SharpDisco can use a plugin to enumerate system drives.
S0546 SharpStage SharpStage has checked the system settings to see if Arabic is the conﬁgured language.
S0450 SHARPSTATS SHARPSTATS has the ability to identify the IP address, machine name, and OS of the compromised
host.[318]
[319]
[320]
[321][322][323][324][325][326]
[327]
[328][329]
[330]
[71]
[331]
[239]
[332]
[333][334]
[335]
[151][15]
[336]
[337]
[338][339]
[236][237]
[340]
[341]
[292]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 16/29ID Name Description
S0445 ShimRatReporter ShimRatReporter gathered the operating system name and speciﬁc Windows version of an infected
machine.
S0217 SHUTTERSPEED SHUTTERSPEED can collect system information.
G1008 SideCopy SideCopy has identiﬁed the OS version of a compromised host.
S0610 SideTwist SideTwist can collect the computer name of a targeted system.
G0121 Sidewinder Sidewinder has used tools to collect the computer name, OS version, installed hotﬁxes, as well as
information regarding the memory and processor on a compromised host.
S0692 SILENTTRINITY SILENTTRINITY can collect information related to a compromised host, including OS version and a
list of drives.
S0468 Skidmap Skidmap has the ability to check whether the infected system’s OS is Debian or RHEL/CentOS to
determine which cryptocurrency miner it should use.
S0533 SLOTHFULMEDIA SLOTHFULMEDIA has collected system name, OS version, adapter information, memory usage, and
disk information from a victim machine.
S0218 SLOWDRIFT SLOWDRIFT collects and sends system information to its C2.
S0649 SMOKEDHAM SMOKEDHAM has used the systeminfo command on a compromised host.
S1086 Snip3 Snip3 has the ability to query Win32\_ComputerSystem for system information. 
S0627 SodaMaster SodaMaster can enumerate the host name and OS version on a target system.
C0024 SolarWinds
CompromiseDuring the SolarWinds Compromise, APT29 used fsutil to check available free space before
executing actions that might create large ﬁles on disk.
S0615 SombRAT SombRAT can execute getinfo to enumerate the computer name and OS version of a
compromised system.
S0516 SoreFang SoreFang can collect the hostname, operating system conﬁguration, product ID, and disk space on
victim machines by executing Systeminfo.
S0157 SOUNDBITE SOUNDBITE is capable of gathering system information.
G0054 Sowbug Sowbug obtained OS version and hardware conﬁguration from a victim.
S0543 Spark Spark can collect the hostname, keyboard layout, and language from the system.
S0374 SpeakUp SpeakUp uses the cat /proc/cpuinfo | grep -c "cpu family" 2>&1 command to gather
system information. 
S0646 SpicyOmelette SpicyOmelette can identify the system name of a compromised host.
S1030 Squirrelwaﬄe Squirrelwaﬄe has gathered victim computer information and conﬁgurations.
S0058 SslMM SslMM sends information to its hard-coded C2, including OS version, service pack information,
processor speed, system name, and OS install date.
S1037 STARWHALE STARWHALE can gather the computer name of an infected host.
G0038 Stealth Falcon Stealth Falcon malware gathers system information via WMI, including the system directory, build
number, serial number, version, manufacturer, model, and total physical memory.[342]
[161]
[8]
[267]
[343][344]
[345]
[346]
[347]
[161]
[348]
[349]
[350]
[351]
[352]
[353]
[202]
[354]
[355]
[356]
[357]
[358]
[359]
[360][361]
[362]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 17/29ID Name Description
S0380 StoneDrill StoneDrill has the capability to discover the system OS, Windows version, architecture and
environment.
S0142 StreamEx StreamEx has the ability to enumerate system information.
S1034 StrifeWater StrifeWater can collect the OS version, architecture, and machine name to create a unique token for
the infected host.
S0491 StrongPity StrongPity can identify the hard disk volume serial number on a compromised host.
S0603 Stuxnet Stuxnet collects system information including computer and domain names, OS version, and S7P
paths.
S0559 SUNBURST SUNBURST collected hostname, OS version, and device uptime.
S1064 SVCReady SVCReady has the ability to collect information such as computer name, computer manufacturer,
BIOS, operating system, and ﬁrmware, including through the use of systeminfo.exe .
S0242 SynAck SynAck gathers computer names, OS version info, and also checks installed keyboard layouts to
estimate if it has been launched from a certain list of countries.
S0060 Sys10 Sys10 collects the computer name, OS versioning information, and OS install date and sends the
information to the C2.
S0464 SYSCON SYSCON has the ability to use Systeminfo to identify system information.
S0096 Systeminfo Systeminfo can be used to gather information about the operating system.
S0663 SysUpdate SysUpdate can collect a system's architecture, operating system version, hostname, and drive
information.
S0098 T9000 T9000 gathers and beacons the operating system build number and CPU Architecture (32-bit/64-bit)
during installation.
G1018 TA2541 TA2541 has collected system information prior to downloading malware on the targeted host.
S0586 TAINTEDSCRIBE TAINTEDSCRIBE can use DriveList to retrieve drive information.
S0467 TajMahal TajMahal has the ability to identify hardware information, the computer name, and OS information
on an infected host.
G0139 TeamTNT TeamTNT has searched for system version, architecture, disk partition, logical volume, and
hostname information.
S0665 ThreatNeedle ThreatNeedle can collect system proﬁle information from a compromised host.
S0678 Torisma Torisma can use GetlogicalDrives to get a bitmask of all drives available on a compromised
system. It can also use GetDriveType to determine if a new drive is a CD-ROM drive.
S0266 TrickBot TrickBot gathers the OS version, machine name, CPU type, amount of RAM available, and UEFI/BIOS
ﬁrmware information from the victim’s machine.
S0094 Trojan.Karagany Trojan.Karagany can capture information regarding the victim's OS, security, and hardware
conﬁguration.
G0081 Tropic Trooper Tropic Trooper has detected a target system’s OS version and system volume information.
S0647 Turian Turian can retrieve system information including OS version, memory usage, local hostname, and
system adapter information.[363]
[364]
[365]
[366]
[367]
[368][369]
[370]
[371]
[359]
[85]
[372]
[373][374]
[375]
[376]
[377]
[378]
[379][380]
[381]
[382]
[383][384][385][386]
[387]
[388][389]
[390]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 18/29ID Name Description
G0010 Turla Turla surveys a system upon check-in to discover operating system conﬁguration details using the
systeminfo and set commands.
S0199 TURNEDUP TURNEDUP is capable of gathering system information.
S0263 TYPEFRAME TYPEFRAME can gather the disk volume information.
S0130 Unknown Logger Unknown Logger can obtain information about the victim computer name, physical memory, country,
and date.
S0275 UPPERCUT UPPERCUT has the capability to gather the system’s hostname and OS version.
S0022 Uroburos Uroburos has the ability to gather basic system information and run the POSIX API gethostbyname .
S0386 Ursnif Ursnif has used Systeminfo to gather system information.
S0476 Valak Valak can determine the Windows version and computer name on a compromised host.
S0257 VERMIN VERMIN collects the OS name, machine name, and architecture information.
S0180 Volgmer Volgmer can gather system information, the computer name, OS version, drive and serial
information from the victim's machine.
G1017 Volt Typhoon Volt Typhoon has discovered ﬁle system types, drive names, size, and free space on compromised
systems.
S0670 WarzoneRAT WarzoneRAT can collect compromised host information, including OS version, PC name, RAM size,
and CPU details.
S0514 WellMess WellMess can identify the computer name of a compromised host.
S0689 WhisperGate WhisperGate has the ability to enumerate ﬁxed logical drives on a targeted system.
G0124 Windigo Windigo has used a script to detect which Linux distribution and version is currently installed on the
system.
S0155 WINDSHIELD WINDSHIELD can gather the victim computer name.
G0112 Windshift Windshift has used malware to identify the computer name of a compromised host.
S0219 WINERACK WINERACK can gather information about the host.
S0176 Wingbird Wingbird checks the victim OS version after executing to determine where to drop ﬁles based on
whether the victim is 32-bit or 64-bit.
S0059 WinMM WinMM collects the system name, OS version including service pack, and system install date and
sends the information to the C2 server.
S0141 Winnti for Windows Winnti for Windows can determine if the OS on a compromised host is newer than Windows XP.
G0102 Wizard Spider Wizard Spider has used Systeminfo and similar commands to acquire detailed conﬁguration
information of a victim's machine. Wizard Spider has also utilized the PowerShell cmdlet Get-
ADComputer to collect DNS hostnames, last logon dates, and operating system information from
Active Directory.
S1065 Woody RAT Woody RAT can retrieve the following information from an infected machine: OS, architecture,
computer name, OS build version, environment variables, and storage drives.[391][392]
[393]
[394]
[395]
[396]
[397]
[398]
[399][400]
[401]
[402][403][404]
[405][406][407]
[408]
[409][410]
[411]
[69]
[202]
[412]
[161]
[413]
[359]
[414]
[415][416]
[417]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 19/29ID Name Description
S0161 XAgentOSX XAgentOSX contains the getInstalledAPP function to run ls -la /Applications to gather what
applications are installed.
S0658 XCSSET XCSSET identiﬁes the macOS version and uses ioreg to determine serial number.
S0388 YAHOYAH YAHOYAH checks for the system’s Windows OS version and hostname.
S0248 yty yty gathers the computer name, the serial number of the main disk volume, CPU information,
Microsoft Windows version, and runs the command systeminfo .
S0251 Zebrocy Zebrocy collects the OS version, computer name and serial number for the storage volume C:.
Zebrocy also runs the systeminfo command to gather system information. 
S0230 ZeroT ZeroT gathers the victim's computer name, Windows version, and system language, and then sends
it to its C2 server.
S0330 Zeus Panda Zeus Panda collects the OS version, system architecture, computer name, product ID, install date,
and information on the keyboard mapping to determine the language used on the system.
G0128 ZIRCONIUM ZIRCONIUM has used a tool to capture the processor architecture of a compromised host in order to
register it with C2.
S0086 ZLib ZLib has the ability to enumerate system information.
S0672 Zox Zox can enumerate attached drives.
S0350 zwShell zwShell can obtain the victim PC name and OS version.
S0412 ZxShell ZxShell can collect the local hostname, operating system details, CPU speed, and total physical
memory.
S1013 ZxxZ ZxxZ has collected the host name and operating system product name from a compromised
machine.
Mitigations
This type of attack technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on the abuse of system features.[418]
[419]
[388]
[420]
[421][80][422][81][423][424]
[425]
[426]
[427][428]
[429]
[239]
[430]
[431]
[432]
[433]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 20/29Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to get detailed information
about the operating system and hardware, including version, patches, hotﬁxes, service packs,
and architecture. For network devices, monitor executed commands in AAA logs, especially
those run by unexpected or unauthorized users.
DS0009 Process OS API
ExecutionMonitor for API calls that may attempt to get detailed information about the operating system
and hardware, including version, patches, hotﬁxes, service packs, and architecture. Remote
access tools with built-in features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather
information. Information may also be acquired through Windows system management tools
such as Windows Management Instrumentation and PowerShell. In cloud-based systems,
native logging can be used to identify access to certain APIs and dashboards that may
contain system information. Depending on how the environment is used, that data alone may
not be useful due to benign use during normal operations.
Process
CreationMonitor newly executed processes that may attempt to get detailed information about the
operating system and hardware, including version, patches, hotﬁxes, service packs, and
architecture.3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 21/29References
1. US-CERT. (2018, April 20). Alert (TA18-106A) Russian State-
Sponsored Cyber Actors Targeting Network Infrastructure
Devices. Retrieved October 19, 2020.
2. Phile Stokes. (2018, September 20). On the Trail of
OSX.FairyTale | Adware Playing at Malware. Retrieved August
24, 2021.
3. Phil Stokes. (2021, February 16). 20 Common Tools &
Techniques Used by macOS Threat Actors & Malware.
Retrieved August 23, 2021.
4. Amazon. (n.d.). describe-instance-information. Retrieved
March 3, 2020.
5. Google. (n.d.). Rest Resource: instance. Retrieved March 3,
2020.
. Microsoft. (2019, March 1). Virtual Machines - Get. Retrieved
October 8, 2019.
7. Crowdstrike Global Intelligence Team. (2014, June 9).
CrowdStrike Intelligence Report: Putter Panda. Retrieved
January 22, 2016.
. Threat Intelligence Team. (2021, December 2). SideCopy APT:
Connecting lures victims, payloads to infrastructure. Retrieved
June 13, 2022.
9. FireEye Threat Intelligence. (2015, December 1). China-based
Cyber Threat Group Uses Dropbox for Malware
Communications and Targets Hong Kong Media Outlets.
Retrieved December 4, 2015.
10. ESET. (2016, October). En Route with Sednit - Part 2:
Observing the Comings and Goings. Retrieved November 21,
2016.
11. Bitdefender. (2015, December). APT28 Under the Scope.
Retrieved February 23, 2017.
12. Zhang, X. (2018, April 05). Analysis of New Agent Tesla
Spyware Variant. Retrieved November 5, 2018.
13. Zhang, X. (2017, June 28). In-Depth Analysis of A New Variant
of .NET Malware AgentTesla. Retrieved November 5, 2018.
14. Jazi, H. (2020, April 16). New AgentTesla variant steals WiFi
credentials. Retrieved May 19, 2020.
15. Financial Security Institute. (2020, February 28). Proﬁling of
TA505 Threat Group That Continues to Attack the Financial
Sector. Retrieved July 14, 2022.
1. Kasuya, M. (2020, January 8). Threat Spotlight: Amadey Bot
Targets Non-Russian Users. Retrieved July 14, 2022.
17. Grange, W. (2020, July 13). Anchor\_dns malware goes cross
platform. Retrieved September 10, 2020.
1. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency. (2021,
February 21). AppleJeus: Analysis of North Korea’s
Cryptocurrency Malware. Retrieved March 1, 2021.
19. Jazi, H. (2021, June 1). Kimsuky APT continues to target
South Korean government using AppleSeed backdoor.
Retrieved June 10, 2021.
20. Grunzweig, J., et al. (2016, May 24). New Wekby Attacks Use
DNS Requests As Command and Control Mechanism.
Retrieved November 15, 2018.
21. Ahl, I. (2017, June 06). Privileges and Credentials: Phished at
the Request of Counsel. Retrieved May 17, 2018.
22. Grunzweig, J., Lee, B. (2016, January 22). New Attacks Linked
to C0d0so0 Group. Retrieved August 2, 2018.
23. Symantec Security Response. (2016, September 6). Buckeye
cyberespionage group shifts gaze from US to Hong Kong.
Retrieved September 26, 2016.21. Malik, M. (2019, June 20). LoudMiner: Cross-platform mining
in cracked VST software. Retrieved May 18, 2020.
219. Hsu, K. et al. (2020, June 24). Lucifer: New Cryptojacking and
DDoS Hybrid Malware Exploiting High and Critical
Vulnerabilities to Infect Windows Devices. Retrieved November
16, 2020.
220. ESET. (2019, July). MACHETE JUST GOT SHARPER
Venezuelan government institutions under attack. Retrieved
September 13, 2019.
221. M.Léveillé, M., Cherepanov, A.. (2022, January 25). Watering
hole deploys new macOS malware, DazzleSpy, in Asia.
Retrieved May 6, 2022.
222. Phil Stokes. (2021, January 11). FADE DEAD | Adventures in
Reversing Malicious Run-Only AppleScripts. Retrieved
September 29, 2022.
223. Ehrlich, A., et al. (2022, September). THE MYSTERY OF
METADOR | AN UNATTRIBUTED THREAT HIDING IN TELCOS,
ISPS, AND UNIVERSITIES. Retrieved January 23, 2023.
224. SentinelLabs. (2022, September 22). Metador Technical
Appendix. Retrieved April 4, 2023.
225. Lee, B. and Falcone, R. (2017, February 15). Magic Hound
Campaign Attacks Saudi Targets. Retrieved December 27,
2017.
22. DFIR Report. (2022, March 21). APT35 Automates Initial
Access Using ProxyShell. Retrieved May 25, 2022.
227. DFIR Report. (2021, November 15). Exchange Exploit Leads to
Domain Wide Ransomware. Retrieved January 5, 2023.
22. GReAT. (2021, June 16). Ferocious Kitten: 6 Years of Covert
Surveillance in Iran. Retrieved September 22, 2021.
229. Mundo, A. (2020, March 26). Ransomware Maze. Retrieved
May 18, 2020.
230. Sierra, E., Iglesias, G.. (2018, April 24). Metamorfo Campaigns
Targeting Brazilian Users. Retrieved July 30, 2020.
231. Zhang, X. (2020, February 4). Another Metamorfo Variant
Targeting Customers of Financial Institutions in More
Countries. Retrieved July 30, 2020.
232. ESET Research. (2019, October 3). Casbaneiro: peculiarities of
this banking Trojan that affects Brazil and Mexico. Retrieved
September 23, 2021.
233. Check Point Research Team. (2021, August 14). Indra -
Hackers Behind Recent Attacks on Iran. Retrieved February 17,
2022.
234. Rascagneres, P., Mercer, W. (2017, June 19). Delphi Used To
Score Against Palestine. Retrieved November 13, 2018.
235. Tsarfaty, Y. (2018, July 25). Micropsia Malware. Retrieved
November 13, 2018.
23. ClearSky Cyber Security . (2021, August). New Iranian
Espionage Campaign By “Siamesekitten” - Lyceum. Retrieved
June 6, 2022.
237. Accenture. (2021, November 9). Who are latest targets of
cyber group Lyceum?. Retrieved June 16, 2022.
23. Rosenberg, J. (2018, June 14). MirageFox: APT15 Resurfaces
With New Tools Based On Old Ones. Retrieved September 21,
2018.
239. Gross, J. (2016, February 23). Operation Dust Storm. Retrieved
December 22, 2021.
240. Falcone, R. and Miller-Osborn, J.. (2016, January 24). Scarlet
Mimic: Years-Long Espionage Campaign Targets Minority
Activists. Retrieved February 10, 2016.3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 22/2924. Yates, M. (2017, June 18). APT3 Uncovered: The code
evolution of Pirpi. Retrieved September 28, 2017.
25. Foltýn, T. (2018, March 13). OceanLotus ships new backdoor
using old tricks. Retrieved May 22, 2018.
2. Dumont, R. (2019, March 20). Fake or Fake: Keeping up with
OceanLotus decoys. Retrieved April 1, 2019.
27. Dumont, R.. (2019, April 9). OceanLotus: macOS malware
update. Retrieved April 15, 2019.
2. Henderson, S., et al. (2020, April 22). Vietnamese Threat
Actors APT32 Targeting Wuhan Government and Chinese
Ministry of Emergency Management in Latest Example of
COVID-19 Related Espionage. Retrieved April 28, 2020.
29. Mercer, W., Rascagneres, P. (2018, January 16). Korea In The
Crosshairs. Retrieved May 21, 2018.
30. DHS/CISA. (2020, August 26). FASTCash 2.0: North Korea's
BeagleBoyz Robbing Banks. Retrieved September 29, 2021.
31. Wiley, B. et al. (2021, December 29). OverWatch Exposes
AQUATIC PANDA in Possession of Log4Shell Exploit Tools
During Hands-on Intrusion Attempt. Retrieved January 18,
2022.
32. CheckPoint. (2020, May 7). Naikon APT: Cyber Espionage
Reloaded. Retrieved May 26, 2020.
33. Doaty, J., Garrett, P.. (2018, September 10). We’re Seeing a
Resurgence of the Demonic Astaroth WMIC Trojan. Retrieved
April 17, 2019.
34. Salem, E. (2019, February 13). ASTAROTH MALWARE USES
LEGITIMATE OS AND ANTIVIRUS PROCESSES TO STEAL
PASSWORDS AND PERSONAL DATA. Retrieved April 17, 2019.
35. Jornet, A. (2021, December 23). Snip3, an investigation into
malware. Retrieved September 19, 2023.
3. Hromcova, Z. (2019, October). AT COMMANDS, TOR-BASED
COMMUNICATIONS: MEET ATTOR, A FANTASY CREATURE
AND ALSO A SPY PLATFORM. Retrieved May 6, 2020.
37. Chen, J. et al. (2019, November). Operation ENDTRADE: TICK’s
Multi-Stage Backdoors for Attacking Industries and Stealing
Classiﬁed Data. Retrieved June 9, 2020.
3. Yan, T., et al. (2018, November 21). New Wine in Old Bottle:
New Azorult Variant Found in FindMyName Campaign using
Fallout Exploit Kit. Retrieved November 29, 2018.
39. Proofpoint. (2018, July 30). New version of AZORult stealer
improves loading features, spreads alongside ransomware in
new campaign. Retrieved November 29, 2018.
40. Mundo, A. et al. (2021, February). Technical Analysis of Babuk
Ransomware. Retrieved August 11, 2021.
41. Unit 42. (2019, February 22). New BabyShark Malware Targets
U.S. National Security Think Tanks. Retrieved October 7, 2019.
42. Hinchliffe, A. and Falcone, R. (2020, May 11). Updated
BackConﬁg Malware Targeting Government and Military
Organizations in South Asia. Retrieved June 17, 2020.
43. Symantec Security Response. (2014, June 30). Dragonﬂy:
Cyberespionage Attacks Against Energy Suppliers. Retrieved
April 8, 2016.
44. Slowik, J. (2021, October). THE BAFFLING BERSERK BEAR: A
DECADE’S ACTIVITY TARGETING CRITICAL
INFRASTRUCTURE. Retrieved December 6, 2021.
45. FireEye Labs. (2015, April). APT30 AND THE MECHANICS OF
A LONG-RUNNING CYBER ESPIONAGE OPERATION. Retrieved
May 1, 2015.
4. US-CERT. (2018, February 06). Malware Analysis Report (MAR)
- 10135536-G. Retrieved June 7, 2018.
47. Accenture iDefense Unit. (2019, March 5). Mudcarp's Focus on
Submarine Technologies. Retrieved August 24, 2021.241. Miller-Osborn, J. and Grunzweig, J.. (2017, March 30).
Trochilus and New MoonWind RATs Used In Attack Against
Thai Organizations. Retrieved March 30, 2017.
242. Svajcer, V. (2018, July 31). Multiple Cobalt Personality
Disorder. Retrieved September 5, 2018.
243. Villadsen, O.. (2019, August 29). More\_eggs, Anyone? Threat
Actor ITG08 Strikes Again. Retrieved September 16, 2019.
244. Checkpoint Research. (2021, November 15). Uncovering
MosesStaff techniques: Ideology over Money. Retrieved
August 11, 2022.
245. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis Team. (2018,
October 10). MuddyWater expands operations. Retrieved
November 2, 2018.
24. Adamitis, D. et al. (2019, May 20). Recent MuddyWater-
associated BlackWater campaign shows signs of new anti-
detection techniques. Retrieved June 5, 2019.
247. Reaqta. (2017, November 22). A dive into MuddyWater APT
targeting Middle-East. Retrieved May 18, 2020.
24. Peretz, A. and Theck, E. (2021, March 5). Earth Vetala –
MuddyWater Continues to Target Organizations in the Middle
East. Retrieved March 18, 2021.
249. Malhortra, A and Ventura, V. (2022, January 31). Iranian APT
MuddyWater targets Turkish users via malicious PDFs,
executables. Retrieved June 22, 2022.
250. FireEye. (2018, March 16). Suspected Chinese Cyber
Espionage Group (TEMP.Periscope) Targeting U.S. Engineering
and Maritime Industries. Retrieved April 11, 2018.
251. Hamzeloofard, S. (2020, January 31). New wave of PlugX
targets Hong Kong | Avira Blog. Retrieved April 13, 2021.
252. Neville, A. (2012, June 15). Trojan.Naid. Retrieved February 22,
2018.
253. Axel F, Pierre T. (2017, October 16). Leviathan: Espionage actor
spearphishes maritime and defense targets. Retrieved
February 15, 2018.
254. Mercer, W., Rascagneres, P. (2018, May 31). NavRAT Uses US-
North Korea Summit As Decoy For Attacks In South Korea.
Retrieved June 11, 2018.
255. Lunghi, D., et al. (2017, December). Untangling the Patchwork
Cyberespionage Group. Retrieved July 10, 2018.
25. Vrabie, V. (2021, April 23). NAIKON – Traces from a Military
Cyber-Espionage Operation. Retrieved June 29, 2021.
257. Victor, K.. (2020, May 18). Netwalker Fileless Ransomware
Injected via Reﬂective Loading . Retrieved May 26, 2020.
25. McAfee. (2015, March 2). Netwire RAT Behind Recent Targeted
Attacks. Retrieved February 15, 2018.
259. Fidelis Cybersecurity. (2013, June 28). Fidelis Threat Advisory
#1009: "njRAT" Uncovered. Retrieved June 4, 2019.
20. Grunzweig, J., Lee, B. (2018, September 27). New KONNI
Malware attacking Eurasia and Southeast Asia. Retrieved
November 5, 2018.
21. Malhotra, A. (2021, March 2). ObliqueRAT returns with new
campaign using hijacked websites. Retrieved September 2,
2021.
22. Sherstobitoff, R., Malhotra, A. (2018, October 18). ‘Operation
Oceansalt’ Attacks South Korea, U.S., and Canada With Source
Code From Chinese Hacker Group. Retrieved November 30,
2018.
23. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis Team. (2018,
October 15). Octopus-infested seas of Central Asia. Retrieved
November 14, 2018.
24. Falcone, R. and Lee, B.. (2016, May 26). The OilRig Campaign:
Attacks on Saudi Arabian Organizations Deliver Helminth
Backdoor. Retrieved May 3, 2017.3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 23/294. Savelesky, K., et al. (2019, July 23). ABADBABE 8BADFOOD :
Discovering BADHATCH and a Detailed Look at FIN8's
Tooling. Retrieved September 8, 2021.
49. Vrabie, V., et al. (2021, March 10). FIN8 Returns with Improved
BADHATCH Toolkit. Retrieved September 8, 2021.
50. Bar, T., Conant, S. (2017, October 20). BadPatch. Retrieved
November 13, 2018.
51. Check Point. (2020, November 26). Bandook: Signed &
Delivered. Retrieved May 31, 2021.
52. Sherstobitoff, R. (2018, March 08). Hidden Cobra Targets
Turkish Financial Sector With New Bankshot Implant.
Retrieved May 18, 2018.
53. US-CERT. (2017, December 13). Malware Analysis Report
(MAR) - 10135536-B. Retrieved July 17, 2018.
54. Cybereason Nocturnus. (2020, July 16). A BAZAR OF TRICKS:
FOLLOWING TEAM9’S DEVELOPMENT CYCLES. Retrieved
November 18, 2020.
55. Pantazopoulos, N. (2020, June 2). In-depth analysis of the
new Team9 malware family. Retrieved December 1, 2020.
5. Mandiant. (n.d.). Appendix C (Digital) - The Malware Arsenal.
Retrieved July 18, 2016.
57. Hayashi, K., Ray, V. (2018, July 31). Bisonal Malware Used in
Attacks Against Russia and South Korea. Retrieved August 7,
2018.
5. Zykov, K. (2020, August 13). CactusPete APT group’s updated
Bisonal backdoor. Retrieved May 5, 2021.
59. Mercer, W., et al. (2020, March 5). Bisonal: 10 years of play.
Retrieved January 26, 2022.
0. Zargarov, N. (2022, May 2). New Black Basta Ransomware
Hijacks Windows Fax Service. Retrieved March 7, 2023.
1. Cyble. (2022, May 6). New ransomware variant targeting high-
value organizations. Retrieved March 7, 2023.
2. Microsoft Defender Threat Intelligence. (2022, June 13). The
many lives of BlackCat ransomware. Retrieved December 20,
2022.
3. F-Secure Labs. (2014). BlackEnergy & Quedagh: The
convergence of crimeware and APT attacks. Retrieved March
24, 2016.
4. Baumgartner, K. and Garnaeva, M.. (2014, November 3). BE2
custom plugins, router abuse, and target proﬁles. Retrieved
March 24, 2016.
5. MSTIC. (2019, December 12). GALLIUM: Targeting global
telecom. Retrieved January 13, 2021.
. US-CERT. (2020, August 19). MAR-10295134-1.v1 – North
Korean Remote Access Trojan: BLINDINGCAN. Retrieved
August 19, 2020.
7. Lambert, T. (2020, May 7). Introducing Blue Mockingbird.
Retrieved May 26, 2020.
. Cash, D., Grunzweig, J., Meltzer, M., Adair, S., Lancaster, T.
(2021, August 17). North Korean APT InkySquid Infects
Victims Using Browser Exploits. Retrieved September 30,
2021.
9. Dumont, R., M.Léveillé, M., Porcher, H. (2018, December 1).
THE DARK SIDE OF THE FORSSHE A landscape of OpenSSH
backdoors. Retrieved July 16, 2020.
70. MSTIC. (2021, May 28). Breaking down NOBELIUM’s latest
early-stage toolset. Retrieved August 4, 2021.
71. Sherstobitoff, R., Saavedra-Morales, J. (2018, February 02).
Gold Dragon Widens Olympics Malware Attacks, Gains
Permanent Presence on Victims’ Systems. Retrieved June 6,
2018.
72. Stolyarov, V. (2022, March 17). Exposing initial access broker
with ties to Conti. Retrieved August 18, 2022.25. Grunzweig, J. and Falcone, R.. (2016, October 4). OilRig
Malware Campaign Updates Toolset and Expands Targets.
Retrieved May 3, 2017.
2. Bromiley, M., et al.. (2019, July 18). Hard Pass: Declining
APT34’s Invite to Join Their Professional Network. Retrieved
August 26, 2019.
27. Check Point. (2021, April 8). Iran’s APT34 Returns with an
Updated Arsenal. Retrieved May 5, 2021.
2. Hromcova, Z. (2019, July). OKRUM AND KETRICAN: AN
OVERVIEW OF RECENT KE3CHANG GROUP ACTIVITY.
Retrieved May 6, 2020.
29. Falcone, R., et al. (2018, September 04). OilRig Targets a
Middle Eastern Government and Adds Evasion Techniques to
OopsIE. Retrieved September 24, 2018.
270. Cybereason Nocturnus. (2022, May 4). Operation CuckooBees:
Deep-Dive into Stealthy Winnti Techniques. Retrieved
September 22, 2022.
271. Sherstobitoff, R. (2018, March 02). McAfee Uncovers
Operation Honeybee, a Malicious Document Campaign
Targeting Humanitarian Aid Groups. Retrieved May 16, 2018.
272. Dantzig, M. v., Schamper, E. (2019, December 19). Operation
Wocao: Shining a light on one of China’s hidden hacking
groups. Retrieved October 8, 2020.
273. Carbon Black Threat Analysis Unit. (2019, February 12). New
macOS Malware Variant of Shlayer (OSX) Discovered.
Retrieved August 8, 2019.
274. Phil Stokes. (2020, September 8). Coming Out of Your Shell:
From Shlayer to ZShlayer. Retrieved September 13, 2021.
275. Horejsi, J. (2018, April 04). New MacOS Backdoor Linked to
OceanLotus Found. Retrieved November 13, 2018.
27. Magisa, L. (2020, November 27). New MacOS Backdoor
Connected to OceanLotus Surfaces. Retrieved December 2,
2020.
277. Mullaney, C. & Honda, H. (2012, May 4). Trojan.Pasam.
Retrieved February 22, 2018.
27. Cymmetria. (2016). Unveiling Patchwork - The Copy-Paste
APT. Retrieved August 3, 2016.
279. Check Point. (2020, November 6). Ransomware Alert:
Pay2Key. Retrieved January 4, 2021.
20. Leonardo. (2020, May 29). MALWARE TECHNICAL INSIGHT
TURLA “Penquin\_x64”. Retrieved March 11, 2021.
21. F-Secure Labs. (2015, September 17). The Dukes: 7 years of
Russian cyberespionage. Retrieved December 10, 2015.
22. Unit 42. (2022, June 13). GALLIUM Expands Targeting Across
Telecommunications, Government and Finance Sectors With
New PingPull Tool. Retrieved August 7, 2022.
23. Tartare, M. et al. (2020, May 21). No “Game over” for the
Winnti Group. Retrieved August 24, 2020.
24. Grunzweig, J., et al. (2016, May 24). New Wekby Attacks Use
DNS Requests As Command and Control Mechanism.
Retrieved August 17, 2016.
25. Ash, B., et al. (2018, June 26). RANCOR: Targeted Attacks in
South East Asia Using PLAINTEE and DDKONG Malware
Families. Retrieved July 2, 2018.
2. Mercer, W, et al. (2020, April 16). PoetRAT: Python RAT uses
COVID-19 lures to target Azerbaijan public and private sectors.
Retrieved April 27, 2020.
27. hasherezade. (2016, April 11). No money, but Pony! From a
mail to a trojan horse. Retrieved May 21, 2020.
2. Nettitude. (2018, July 23). Python Server for PoshC2.
Retrieved April 23, 2019.3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 24/2973. Merriman, K. and Trouerbach, P. (2022, April 28). This isn't
Optimus Prime's Bumblebee but it's Still Transforming.
Retrieved August 22, 2022.
74. Kamble, V. (2022, June 28). Bumblebee: New Loader Rapidly
Assuming Central Position in Cyber-crime Ecosystem.
Retrieved August 24, 2022.
75. Sushko, O. (2019, April 17). macOS Bundlore: Mac Virus
Bypassing macOS Security Features. Retrieved June 30, 2020.
7. Rufus Brown, Van Ta, Douglas Bienstock, Geoff Ackerman,
John Wolfram. (2022, March 8). Does This Look Infected? A
Summary of APT41 Targeting U.S. State Governments.
Retrieved July 8, 2022.
77. Malhotra, A. (2022, March 15). Threat Advisory: CaddyWiper.
Retrieved March 23, 2022.
7. Threat Intelligence Team. (2022, March 18). Double header:
IsaacWiper and CaddyWiper . Retrieved April 11, 2022.
79. Symantec Security Response. (2015, December 7). Iran-based
attackers use back door threats to spy on Middle Eastern
targets. Retrieved April 17, 2019.
0. Falcone, R., Lee, B. (2018, November 20). Sofacy Continues
Global Attacks and Wheels Out New ‘Cannon’ Trojan. Retrieved
November 26, 2018.
1. Lee, B., Falcone, R. (2018, December 12). Dear Joohn: The
Sofacy Group’s Global Campaign. Retrieved April 19, 2019.
2. Giuliani, M., Allievi, A. (2011, February 28). Carberp - a modular
information stealing trojan. Retrieved July 15, 2020.
3. Grunzweig, J.. (2017, April 20). Cardinal RAT Active for Over
Two Years. Retrieved December 8, 2018.
4. Grunzweig, J. and Wilhoit, K. (2018, November 29). The
Fractured Block Campaign: CARROTBAT Used to Deliver
Malware Targeting Southeast Asia. Retrieved June 2, 2020.
5. McCabe, A. (2020, January 23). The Fractured Statue
Campaign: U.S. Government Agency Targeted in Spear-
Phishing Attacks. Retrieved June 2, 2020.
. ClearSky Cyber Security. (2021, January). “Lebanese Cedar”
APT Global Lebanese Espionage Campaign Leveraging Web
Servers. Retrieved February 10, 2021.
7. Salem, E. (2020, November 17). CHAES: Novel Malware
Targeting Latin American E-Commerce. Retrieved June 30,
2021.
. Check Point. (2022, January 11). APT35 exploits Log4j
vulnerability to distribute new modular PowerShell toolkit.
Retrieved January 24, 2022.
9. Miller-Osborn, J. and Grunzweig, J.. (2017, February 16).
menuPass Returns with New Malware and New Attacks
Against Japanese Academics and Organizations. Retrieved
March 1, 2017.
90. PwC and BAE Systems. (2017, April). Operation Cloud Hopper:
Technical Annex. Retrieved April 13, 2017.
91. Jansen, W . (2021, January 12). Abusing cloud services to ﬂy
under the radar. Retrieved January 19, 2021.
92. Dupuy, T. and Faou, M. (2021, June). Gelsemium. Retrieved
November 30, 2021.
93. Lunghi, D. et al. (2020, February). Uncovering DRBControl.
Retrieved November 12, 2021.
94. Chen, T. and Chen, Z. (2020, February 17). CLAMBLING - A
New Backdoor Base On Dropbox. Retrieved November 12,
2021.
95. Microsoft. (n.d.). Dir. Retrieved April 18, 2016.
9. Grunzweig, J. (2018, January 31). Comnie Continues to Target
Organizations in East Asia. Retrieved June 7, 2018.29. Adair, S.. (2016, November 9). PowerDuke: Widespread Post-
Election Spear Phishing Campaigns Targeting Think Tanks
and NGOs. Retrieved January 11, 2017.
290. Lancaster, T. (2018, November 5). Inception Attackers Target
Europe with Year-old Oﬃce Vulnerability. Retrieved May 8,
2020.
291. Singh, S. et al.. (2018, March 13). Iranian Threat Group
Updates Tactics, Techniques and Procedures in Spear
Phishing Campaign. Retrieved April 11, 2018.
292. Lunghi, D. and Horejsi, J.. (2019, June 10). MuddyWater
Resurfaces, Uses Multi-Stage Backdoor POWERSTATS V3 and
New Post-Exploitation Tools. Retrieved May 14, 2020.
293. Sardiwal, M, et al. (2017, December 7). New Targeted Attack in
the Middle East by APT34, a Suspected Iranian Threat Group,
Using CVE-2017-11882 Exploit. Retrieved December 20, 2017.
294. Cherepanov, A.. (2016, May 17). Operation Groundbait:
Analysis of a surveillance toolkit. Retrieved May 18, 2016.
295. Gorelik, M.. (2019, June 10). SECURITY ALERT: FIN8 IS BACK
IN BUSINESS, TARGETING THE HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY.
Retrieved June 13, 2019.
29. Nicolas Verdier. (n.d.). Retrieved January 29, 2018.
297. CS. (2020, October 7). Duck Hunting with Falcon Complete: A
Fowl Banking Trojan Evolves, Part 2. Retrieved September 27,
2021.
29. Morrow, D. (2021, April 15). The rise of QakBot. Retrieved
September 27, 2021.
299. Group IB. (2020, September). LOCK LIKE A PRO. Retrieved
September 27, 2021.
300. MaxXor. (n.d.). QuasarRAT. Retrieved July 10, 2018.
301. Sanmillan, I.. (2020, May 13). Ramsay: A cyber‑espionage
toolkit tailored for air‑gapped networks. Retrieved May 27,
2020.
302. Antiy CERT. (2020, April 20). Analysis of Ramsay components
of Darkhotel's inﬁltration and isolation network. Retrieved
March 24, 2021.
303. Lei, C., et al. (2018, January 24). Lazarus Campaign Targeting
Cryptocurrencies Reveals Remote Controller Tool, an Evolved
RATANKBA, and More. Retrieved May 22, 2018.
304. Trend Micro. (2017, February 27). RATANKBA: Delving into
Large-scale Watering Holes against Enterprises. Retrieved May
22, 2018.
305. Global Threat Center, Intelligence Team. (2020, December).
APT27 Turns to Ransomware. Retrieved November 12, 2021.
30. Grunzweig, J. and Miller-Osborn, J. (2017, November 10). New
Malware with Ties to SunOrcal Discovered. Retrieved
November 16, 2017.
307. Accenture Security. (2018, April 23). Hogﬁsh Redleaves
Campaign. Retrieved July 2, 2018.
30. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis Team. (2016,
August 9). The ProjectSauron APT. Technical Analysis.
Retrieved August 17, 2016.
309. Livelli, K, et al. (2018, November 12). Operation Shaheen.
Retrieved May 1, 2019.
310. Mamedov, O, et al. (2019, July 3). Sodin ransomware exploits
Windows vulnerability and processor architecture. Retrieved
August 4, 2020.
311. Cylance. (2019, July 3). hreat Spotlight: Sodinokibi
Ransomware. Retrieved August 4, 2020.
312. Secureworks . (2019, September 24). REvil: The GandCrab
Connection. Retrieved August 4, 2020.
313. McAfee. (2019, October 2). McAfee ATR Analyzes Sodinokibi
aka REvil Ransomware-as-a-Service – What The Code Tells
Us. Retrieved August 4, 2020.3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 25/2997. Lunghi, D. (2021, August 17). Confucius Uses Pegasus
Spyware-related Lures to Target Pakistani Military. Retrieved
December 26, 2021.
9. FireEye. (2015). APT28: A WINDOW INTO RUSSIA’S CYBER
ESPIONAGE OPERATIONS?. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
99. F-Secure Labs. (2015, April 22). CozyDuke: Malware Analysis.
Retrieved December 10, 2015.
100. byt3bl33d3r. (2018, September 8). SMB: Command Reference.
Retrieved July 17, 2020.
101. Huss, D. (2016, March 1). Operation Transparent Tribe.
Retrieved June 8, 2016.
102. Dedola, G. (2020, August 20). Transparent Tribe: Evolution
analysis, part 1. Retrieved September 2, 2021.
103. N. Baisini. (2022, July 13). Transparent Tribe begins targeting
education sector in latest campaign. Retrieved September 22,
2022.
104. Roccio, T., et al. (2021, April). Technical Analysis of Cuba
Ransomware. Retrieved June 18, 2021.
105. NCSC. (2022, February 23). Cyclops Blink Malware Analysis
Report. Retrieved March 3, 2022.
10. TrendMicro. (2014, September 03). DARKCOMET. Retrieved
November 6, 2018.
107. Kujawa, A. (2018, March 27). You dirty RAT! Part 1:
DarkComet. Retrieved November 6, 2018.
10. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis Team. (2015,
August 10). Darkhotel's attacks in 2015. Retrieved November
2, 2018.
109. Microsoft. (2016, July 14). Reverse engineering DUBNIUM –
Stage 2 payload analysis . Retrieved March 31, 2021.
110. Secureworks Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2022,
August 17). DarkTortilla Malware Analysis. Retrieved
November 3, 2022.
111. Smith, S., Stafford, M. (2021, December 14). DarkWatchman:
A new evolution in ﬁleless techniques. Retrieved January 10,
2022.
112. McLellan, T. and Moore, J. et al. (2021, April 29). UNC2447
SOMBRAT and FIVEHANDS Ransomware: A Sophisticated
Financial Threat. Retrieved June 2, 2021.
113. Shulmin, A., Yunakovsky, S. (2017, April 28). Use of DNS
Tunneling for C&C Communications. Retrieved November 5,
2018.
114. Dahan, A. (2017). Operation Cobalt Kitty. Retrieved December
27, 2018.
115. Fidelis Cybersecurity. (2016, February 29). The Turbo
Campaign, Featuring Derusbi for 64-bit Linux. Retrieved March
2, 2016.
11. Neeamni, D., Rubinfeld, A.. (2021, July 1). Diavol - A New
Ransomware Used By Wizard Spider?. Retrieved November 12,
2021.
117. ClearSky Cyber Security. (2017, December). Charming Kitten.
Retrieved December 27, 2017.
11. Check Point Research. (2021, January 4). Stopping Serial
Killer: Catching the Next Strike. Retrieved September 7, 2021.
119. Cybereason Nocturnus Team. (2020, December 9).
MOLERATS IN THE CLOUD: New Malware Arsenal Abuses
Cloud Platforms in Middle East Espionage Campaign.
Retrieved December 22, 2020.
120. Konstantin Zykov. (2019, September 23). Hello! My name is
Dtrack. Retrieved January 20, 2021.
121. Hod Gavriel. (2019, November 21). Dtrack: In-depth analysis of
APT on a nuclear power plant. Retrieved January 20, 2021.
122. ClearSky. (2016, January 7). Operation DustySky. Retrieved
January 8, 2016.314. Intel 471 Malware Intelligence team. (2020, March 31). REvil
Ransomware-as-a-Service – An analysis of a ransomware
aﬃliate operation. Retrieved August 4, 2020.
315. Group IB. (2020, May). Ransomware Uncovered: Attackers’
Latest Methods. Retrieved August 5, 2020.
31. Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2019, September 24).
REvil/Sodinokibi Ransomware. Retrieved August 4, 2020.
317. Knight, S.. (2020, April 16). VMware Carbon Black TAU Threat
Analysis: The Evolution of Lazarus. Retrieved May 1, 2020.
31. Sherstobitoff, R., Malhotra, A., et. al.. (2018, December 18).
Operation Sharpshooter Campaign Targets Global Defense,
Critical Infrastructure. Retrieved May 14, 2020.
319. Anomali Labs. (2019, March 15). Rocke Evolves Its Arsenal
With a New Malware Family Written in Golang. Retrieved April
24, 2019.
320. Falcone, R., et al. (2018, July 27). New Threat Actor Group
DarkHydrus Targets Middle East Government. Retrieved
August 2, 2018.
321. Mercer, W., Rascagneres, P. (2017, April 03). Introducing
ROKRAT. Retrieved May 21, 2018.
322. Mercer, W., Rascagneres, P. (2017, November 28). ROKRAT
Reloaded. Retrieved May 21, 2018.
323. GReAT. (2019, May 13). ScarCruft continues to evolve,
introduces Bluetooth harvester. Retrieved June 4, 2019.
324. Pantazopoulos, N.. (2018, November 8). RokRat Analysis.
Retrieved May 21, 2020.
325. Cash, D., Grunzweig, J., Adair, S., Lancaster, T. (2021, August
25). North Korean BLUELIGHT Special: InkySquid Deploys
RokRAT. Retrieved October 1, 2021.
32. Jazi, Hossein. (2021, January 6). Retrohunting APT37: North
Korean APT used VBA self decode technique to inject RokRat.
Retrieved March 22, 2022.
327. Alex Turing, Hui Wang. (2021, April 28). RotaJakiro: A long live
secret backdoor with 0 VT detection. Retrieved June 14, 2023.
32. Cybereason Global SOC and Cybereason Security Research
Teams. (2022, December 14). Royal Rumble: Analysis of
Royal Ransomware. Retrieved March 30, 2023.
329. Morales, N. et al. (2023, February 20). Royal Ransomware
Expands Attacks by Targeting Linux ESXi Servers. Retrieved
March 30, 2023.
330. Faou, M. and Boutin, J. (2017, February). Read The Manual: A
Guide to the RTM Banking Trojan. Retrieved March 9, 2017.
331. Hanel, A. (2019, January 10). Big Game Hunting with Ryuk:
Another Lucrative Targeted Ransomware. Retrieved May 12,
2020.
332. Hasherezade. (2021, April 6). A deep dive into Saint Bot, a new
downloader. Retrieved June 9, 2022.
333. Cherepanov, A.. (2017, July 4). Analysis of TeleBots’ cunning
backdoor . Retrieved June 11, 2020.
334. Scott W. Brady. (2020, October 15). United States vs. Yuriy
Sergeyevich Andrienko et al.. Retrieved November 25, 2020.
335. Budaca, E., et al. (2021, August 25). FIN8 Threat Actor Goes
Agile with New Sardonic Backdoor. Retrieved August 9, 2023.
33. Schwarz, D. and Proofpoint Staff. (2019, January 9).
ServHelper and FlawedGrace - New malware introduced by
TA505. Retrieved May 28, 2019.
337. Kaspersky Lab. (2017, August). ShadowPad: popular server
management software hit in supply chain attack. Retrieved
March 22, 2021.
33. Falcone, R.. (2016, November 30). Shamoon 2: Return of the
Disttrack Wiper. Retrieved January 11, 2017.
339. Falcone, R. (2018, December 13). Shamoon 3 Targets Oil and
Gas Organization. Retrieved March 14, 2019.3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 26/29123. hasherezade. (2015, November 4). A Technical Look At
Dyreza. Retrieved June 15, 2020.
124. Joe Security. (n.d.). Analysis Report fasm.dll. Retrieved
January 6, 2021.
125. NHS Digital. (2020, November 26). Egregor Ransomware The
RaaS successor to Maze. Retrieved December 29, 2020.
12. Falcone, R., et al.. (2015, June 16). Operation Lotus Blossom.
Retrieved February 15, 2016.
127. Falcone, R. and Miller-Osborn, J. (2016, February 3). Emissary
Trojan Changelog: Did Operation Lotus Blossom Cause It to
Evolve?. Retrieved February 15, 2016.
12. Schroeder, W., Warner, J., Nelson, M. (n.d.). Github
PowerShellEmpire. Retrieved April 28, 2016.
129. Adamitis, D. et al. (2019, June 4). It's alive: Threat actors
cobble together open-source pieces into monstrous
Frankenstein campaign. Retrieved May 11, 2020.
130. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis Team. (2014,
August 06). The Epic Turla Operation: Solving some of the
mysteries of Snake/Uroboros. Retrieved November 7, 2018.
131. Adamitis, D. (2020, May 6). Phantom in the Command Shell.
Retrieved December 22, 2021.
132. Threat Intelligence and Research. (2015, March 30). VOLATILE
CEDAR. Retrieved February 8, 2021.
133. US-CERT. (2017, November 22). Alert (TA17-318A): HIDDEN
COBRA – North Korean Remote Administration Tool:
FALLCHILL. Retrieved December 7, 2017.
134. Faou, M., Tartare, M., Dupuy, T. (2019, October). OPERATION
GHOST. Retrieved September 23, 2020.
135. Somerville, L. and Toro, A. (2017, March 30). Playing Cat &
Mouse: Introducing the Felismus Malware. Retrieved
November 16, 2017.
13. Patil, S. (2018, June 26). Microsoft Oﬃce Vulnerabilities Used
to Distribute FELIXROOT Backdoor in Recent Campaign.
Retrieved July 31, 2018.
137. Cherepanov, A. (2018, October). GREYENERGY A successor to
BlackEnergy. Retrieved November 15, 2018.
13. Yamout, M. (2021, November 29). WIRTE’s campaign in the
Middle East ‘living off the land’ since at least 2019. Retrieved
February 1, 2022.
139. Ta, V., et al. (2022, August 8). FIN13: A Cybercriminal Threat
Actor Focused on Mexico. Retrieved February 9, 2023.
140. Sygnia Incident Response Team. (2022, January 5). TG2003:
ELEPHANT BEETLE UNCOVERING AN ORGANIZED
FINANCIAL-THEFT OPERATION. Retrieved February 9, 2023.
141. Symantec Threat Hunter Team. (2023, July 18). FIN8 Uses
Revamped Sardonic Backdoor to Deliver Noberus
Ransomware. Retrieved August 9, 2023.
142. Grunzweig, J. (2018, October 01). NOKKI Almost Ties the Knot
with DOGCALL: Reaper Group Uses New Malware to Deploy
RAT. Retrieved November 5, 2018.
143. FinFisher. (n.d.). Retrieved December 20, 2017.
144. Allievi, A.,Flori, E. (2018, March 01). FinFisher exposed: A
researcher’s tale of defeating traps, tricks, and complex virtual
machines. Retrieved July 9, 2018.
145. Proofpoint Staff. (2018, March 7). Leaked Ammyy Admin
Source Code Turned into Malware. Retrieved May 28, 2019.
14. Vrabie, V. (2020, November). Dissecting a Chinese APT
Targeting South Eastern Asian Government Institutions.
Retrieved September 19, 2022.
147. Bryan Lee and Rob Downs. (2016, February 12). A Look Into
Fysbis: Sofacy’s Linux Backdoor. Retrieved September 10,
2017.340. Faou, M. (2023, August 10). MoustachedBouncer: Espionage
against foreign diplomats in Belarus. Retrieved September 25,
2023.
341. Ilascu, I. (2020, December 14). Hacking group’s new malware
abuses Google and Facebook services. Retrieved December
28, 2020.
342. Yonathan Klijnsma. (2016, May 17). Mofang: A politically
motivated information stealing adversary. Retrieved May 12,
2020.
343. Hegel, T. (2021, January 13). A Global Perspective of the
SideWinder APT. Retrieved January 27, 2021.
344. Rewterz. (2020, June 22). Analysis on Sidewinder APT Group
– COVID-19. Retrieved January 29, 2021.
345. Salvati, M. (2019, August 6). SILENTTRINITY Modules.
Retrieved March 24, 2022.
34. Remillano, A., Urbanec, J. (2019, September 19). Skidmap
Linux Malware Uses Rootkit Capabilities to Hide
Cryptocurrency-Mining Payload. Retrieved June 4, 2020.
347. DHS/CISA, Cyber National Mission Force. (2020, October 1).
Malware Analysis Report (MAR) MAR-10303705-1.v1 –
Remote Access Trojan: SLOTHFULMEDIA. Retrieved October 2,
2020.
34. FireEye. (2021, June 16). Smoking Out a DARKSIDE Aﬃliate’s
Supply Chain Software Compromise. Retrieved September 22,
2021.
349. Lorber, N. (2021, May 7). Revealing the Snip3 Crypter, a Highly
Evasive RAT Loader. Retrieved September 13, 2023.
350. GREAT. (2021, March 30). APT10: sophisticated multi-layered
loader Ecipekac discovered in A41APT campaign. Retrieved
June 17, 2021.
351. MSTIC, CDOC, 365 Defender Research Team. (2021, January
20). Deep dive into the Solorigate second-stage activation:
From SUNBURST to TEARDROP and Raindrop . Retrieved
January 22, 2021.
352. The BlackBerry Research and Intelligence Team. (2020,
November 12). The CostaRicto Campaign: Cyber-Espionage
Outsourced. Retrieved May 24, 2021.
353. CISA. (2020, July 16). MAR-10296782-1.v1 – SOREFANG.
Retrieved September 29, 2020.
354. Symantec Security Response. (2017, November 7). Sowbug:
Cyber espionage group targets South American and Southeast
Asian governments. Retrieved November 16, 2017.
355. Falcone, R., et al. (2020, March 3). Molerats Delivers Spark
Backdoor to Government and Telecommunications
Organizations. Retrieved December 14, 2020.
35. Check Point Research. (2019, February 4). SpeakUp: A New
Undetected Backdoor Linux Trojan. Retrieved April 17, 2019.
357. CTU. (2018, September 27). Cybercriminals Increasingly
Trying to Ensnare the Big Financial Fish. Retrieved September
20, 2021.
35. Kumar, A., Stone-Gross, Brett. (2021, September 28).
Squirrelwaﬄe: New Loader Delivering Cobalt Strike. Retrieved
August 9, 2022.
359. Baumgartner, K., Golovkin, M.. (2015, May). The MsnMM
Campaigns: The Earliest Naikon APT Campaigns. Retrieved
April 10, 2019.
30. Tomcik, R. et al. (2022, February 24). Left On Read: Telegram
Malware Spotted in Latest Iranian Cyber Espionage Activity.
Retrieved August 18, 2022.
31. FBI, CISA, CNMF, NCSC-UK. (2022, February 24). Iranian
Government-Sponsored Actors Conduct Cyber Operations
Against Global Government and Commercial Networks.
Retrieved September 27, 2022.3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 27/2914. Kasza, A. and Reichel, D. (2017, February 27). The Gamaredon
Group Toolset Evolution. Retrieved March 1, 2017.
149. Kakara, H., Maruyama, E. (2020, April 17). Gamaredon APT
Group Use Covid-19 Lure in Campaigns. Retrieved May 19,
2020.
150. CERT-EE. (2021, January 27). Gamaredon Infection: From
Dropper to Entry. Retrieved February 17, 2022.
151. Schwarz, D. et al. (2019, October 16). TA505 Distributes New
SDBbot Remote Access Trojan with Get2 Downloader.
Retrieved May 29, 2020.
152. Quinn, J. (2019, March 25). The odd case of a Gh0stRAT
variant. Retrieved July 15, 2020.
153. Trustwave SpiderLabs. (2020, June 25). The Golden Tax
Department and Emergence of GoldenSpy Malware. Retrieved
July 23, 2020.
154. ESET. (2020, April 28). Grandoreiro: How engorged can an EXE
get?. Retrieved November 13, 2020.
155. Mercer, W., Rascagneres, P. (2018, April 26). GravityRAT - The
Two-Year Evolution Of An APT Targeting India. Retrieved May
16, 2018.
15. Sandvik, Runa. (2021, October 1). Made In America: Green
Lambert for OS X. Retrieved March 21, 2022.
157. Sandvik, Runa. (2021, October 18). Green Lambert and
ATT&CK. Retrieved March 21, 2022.
15. Namestnikov, Y. and Aime, F. (2019, May 8). FIN7.5: the
infamous cybercrime rig “FIN7” continues its activities.
Retrieved October 11, 2019.
159. Priego, A. (2021, July). THE BROTHERS GRIM: THE
REVERSING TALE OF GRIMAGENT MALWARE USED BY RYUK.
Retrieved July 16, 2021.
10. Carr, N., et al. (2017, April 24). FIN7 Evolution and the Phishing
LNK. Retrieved April 24, 2017.
11. FireEye. (2018, February 20). APT37 (Reaper): The Overlooked
North Korean Actor. Retrieved March 1, 2018.
12. Patil, S. and Williams, M.. (2019, June 5). Government Sector
in Central Asia Targeted With New HAWKBALL Backdoor
Delivered via Microsoft Oﬃce Vulnerabilities. Retrieved June
20, 2019.
13. Guerrero-Saade, J. (2022, February 23). HermeticWiper | New
Destructive Malware Used In Cyber Attacks on Ukraine.
Retrieved March 25, 2022.
14. Thomas, W. et al. (2022, February 25). CrowdStrike Falcon
Protects from New Wiper Malware Used in Ukraine
Cyberattacks. Retrieved March 25, 2022.
15. ESET. (2022, March 1). IsaacWiper and HermeticWizard: New
wiper and worm targetingUkraine. Retrieved April 10, 2022.
1. Dani, M. (2022, March 1). Ukrainian Targets Hit by
HermeticWiper, New Datawiper Malware. Retrieved March 25,
2022.
17. Kayal, A. et al. (2021, October). LYCEUM REBORN:
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE IN THE MIDDLE EAST. Retrieved
June 14, 2022.
1. Chen, Joey. (2022, June 9). Aoqin Dragon | Newly-Discovered
Chinese-linked APT Has Been Quietly Spying On
Organizations For 10 Years. Retrieved July 14, 2022.
19. PT ESC Threat Intelligence. (2020, June 4). COVID-19 and New
Year greetings: an investigation into the tools and methods
used by the Higaisa group. Retrieved March 2, 2021.
170. Malwarebytes Threat Intelligence Team. (2020, June 4). New
LNK attack tied to Higaisa APT discovered. Retrieved March 2,
2021.32. Marczak, B. and Scott-Railton, J.. (2016, May 29). Keep Calm
and (Don’t) Enable Macros: A New Threat Actor Targets UAE
Dissidents. Retrieved June 8, 2016.
33. Kaspersky Lab. (2017, March 7). From Shamoon to StoneDrill:
Wipers attacking Saudi organizations and beyond. Retrieved
March 14, 2019.
34. Cylance SPEAR Team. (2017, February 9). Shell Crew Variants
Continue to Fly Under Big AV’s Radar. Retrieved February 15,
2017.
35. Cybereason Nocturnus. (2022, February 1). StrifeWater RAT:
Iranian APT Moses Staff Adds New Trojan to Ransomware
Operations. Retrieved August 15, 2022.
3. Mercer, W. et al. (2020, June 29). PROMETHIUM extends
global reach with StrongPity3 APT. Retrieved July 20, 2020.
37. Nicolas Falliere, Liam O Murchu, Eric Chien 2011, February
W32.Stuxnet Dossier (Version 1.4) Retrieved. 2017/09/22
3. FireEye. (2020, December 13). Highly Evasive Attacker
Leverages SolarWinds Supply Chain to Compromise Multiple
Global Victims With SUNBURST Backdoor. Retrieved January
4, 2021.
39. MSTIC. (2020, December 18). Analyzing Solorigate, the
compromised DLL ﬁle that started a sophisticated
cyberattack, and how Microsoft Defender helps protect
customers . Retrieved January 5, 2021.
370. Schlapfer, Patrick. (2022, June 6). A New Loader Gets Ready.
Retrieved December 13, 2022.
371. Ivanov, A. et al. (2018, May 7). SynAck targeted ransomware
uses the Doppelgänging technique. Retrieved May 22, 2018.
372. Microsoft. (n.d.). Systeminfo. Retrieved April 8, 2016.
373. Lunghi, D. and Lu, K. (2021, April 9). Iron Tiger APT Updates
Toolkit With Evolved SysUpdate Malware. Retrieved November
12, 2021.
374. Daniel Lunghi. (2023, March 1). Iron Tiger’s SysUpdate
Reappears, Adds Linux Targeting. Retrieved March 20, 2023.
375. Grunzweig, J. and Miller-Osborn, J.. (2016, February 4). T9000:
Advanced Modular Backdoor Uses Complex Anti-Analysis
Techniques. Retrieved April 15, 2016.
37. Larson, S. and Wise, J. (2022, February 15). Charting TA2541's
Flight. Retrieved September 12, 2023.
377. USG. (2020, May 12). MAR-10288834-2.v1 – North Korean
Trojan: TAINTEDSCRIBE. Retrieved March 5, 2021.
37. GReAT. (2019, April 10). Project TajMahal – a sophisticated
new APT framework. Retrieved October 14, 2019.
379. AT&T Alien Labs. (2021, September 8). TeamTNT with new
campaign aka Chimaera. Retrieved September 22, 2021.
30. Darin Smith. (2022, April 21). TeamTNT targeting AWS,
Alibaba. Retrieved August 4, 2022.
31. Vyacheslav Kopeytsev and Seongsu Park. (2021, February
25). Lazarus targets defense industry with ThreatNeedle.
Retrieved October 27, 2021.
32. Beek, C. (2020, November 5). Operation North Star: Behind The
Scenes. Retrieved December 20, 2021.
33. Salinas, M., Holguin, J. (2017, June). Evolution of Trickbot.
Retrieved July 31, 2018.
34. Reaves, J. (2016, October 15). TrickBot: We Missed you, Dyre.
Retrieved August 2, 2018.
35. Dahan, A. et al. (2019, December 11). DROPPING ANCHOR:
FROM A TRICKBOT INFECTION TO THE DISCOVERY OF THE
ANCHOR MALWARE. Retrieved September 10, 2020.
3. Eclypsium, Advanced Intelligence. (2020, December 1).
TRICKBOT NOW OFFERS ‘TRICKBOOT ’: PERSIST, BRICK,
PROFIT. Retrieved March 15, 2021.3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 28/29171. Chen, J. et al. (2021, February 3). Hildegard: New TeamTNT
Cryptojacking Malware Targeting Kubernetes. Retrieved April
5, 2021.
172. US-CERT. (2019, April 10). MAR-10135536-8 – North Korean
Trojan: HOPLIGHT. Retrieved April 19, 2019.
173. US-CERT. (2020, February 20). MAR-10271944-1.v1 – North
Korean Trojan: HOTCROISSANT. Retrieved May 1, 2020.
174. Lelli, A. (2010, January 11). Trojan.Hydraq. Retrieved February
20, 2018.
175. CrowdStrike. (2022, May). ICEAPPLE: A NOVEL INTERNET
INFORMATION SERVICES (IIS) POST-EXPLOITATION
FRAMEWORK. Retrieved June 27, 2022.
17. Kessem, L., et al. (2017, November 13). New Banking Trojan
IcedID Discovered by IBM X-Force Research. Retrieved July 14,
2020.
177. Symantec. (2018, March 14). Inception Framework: Alive and
Well, and Hiding Behind Proxies. Retrieved May 8, 2020.
17. Dragos Inc.. (2017, June 13). CRASHOVERRIDE Analysis of
the Threat to Electric Grid Operations. Retrieved December 18,
2020.
179. ASERT Team. (2018, April 04). Innaput Actors Utilize Remote
Access Trojan Since 2016, Presumably Targeting Victim Files.
Retrieved July 9, 2018.
10. Hromcová, Z. (2018, June 07). InvisiMole: Surprisingly
equipped spyware, undercover since 2013. Retrieved July 10,
2018.
11. Hromcova, Z. and Cherpanov, A. (2020, June). INVISIMOLE:
THE HIDDEN PART OF THE STORY. Retrieved July 16, 2020.
12. Sancho, D., et al. (2012, May 22). IXESHE An APT Campaign.
Retrieved June 7, 2019.
13. ESET. (2016, October). En Route with Sednit - Part 1:
Approaching the Target. Retrieved November 8, 2016.
14. Lee, B, et al. (2018, February 28). Sofacy Attacks Multiple
Government Entities. Retrieved March 15, 2018.
15. Windows Defender Advanced Threat Hunting Team. (2016,
April 29). PLATINUM: Targeted attacks in South and
Southeast Asia. Retrieved February 15, 2018.
1. Bingham, J. (2013, February 11). Cross-Platform Frutas RAT
Builder and Back Door. Retrieved April 23, 2019.
17. Yadav, A., et al. (2016, January 29). Malicious Oﬃce ﬁles
dropping Kasidet and Dridex. Retrieved March 24, 2016.
1. Levene, B, et al. (2017, May 03). Kazuar: Multiplatform
Espionage Backdoor with API Access. Retrieved July 17, 2018.
19. Villeneuve, N., Bennett, J. T., Moran, N., Haq, T., Scott, M., &
Geers, K. (2014). OPERATION “KE3CHANG”: Targeted Attacks
Against Ministries of Foreign Affairs. Retrieved November 12,
2014.
190. Smallridge, R. (2018, March 10). APT15 is alive and strong: An
analysis of RoyalCli and RoyalDNS. Retrieved April 4, 2018.
191. MSTIC. (2021, December 6). NICKEL targeting government
organizations across Latin America and Europe. Retrieved
March 18, 2022.
192. Ray, V. and Hayashi, K. (2019, February 1). Tracking
OceanLotus’ new Downloader, KerrDown. Retrieved October 1,
2021.
193. Parys, B. (2017, February 11). The KeyBoys are back in town.
Retrieved June 13, 2019.
194. Guarnieri, C., Schloesser M. (2013, June 7). KeyBoy, Targeted
Attacks against Vietnam and India. Retrieved June 14, 2019.
195. US-CERT. (2018, August 09). MAR-10135536-17 – North
Korean Trojan: KEYMARBLE. Retrieved August 16, 2018.
19. Dahan, A. et al. (2020, November 2). Back to the Future: Inside
the Kimsuky KGH Spyware Suite. Retrieved November 6, 2020.37. Secureworks. (2019, July 24). Updated Karagany Malware
Targets Energy Sector. Retrieved August 12, 2020.
3. Alintanahin, K. (2015). Operation Tropic Trooper: Relying on
Tried-and-Tested Flaws to Inﬁltrate Secret Keepers. Retrieved
June 14, 2019.
39. Chen, J.. (2020, May 12). Tropic Trooper’s Back: USBferry
Attack Targets Air gapped Environments. Retrieved May 20,
2020.
390. Adam Burgher. (2021, June 10). BackdoorDiplomacy:
Upgrading from Quarian to Turian. Retrieved September 1,
2021
391. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research and Analysis Team. (2014,
August 7). The Epic Turla Operation: Solving some of the
mysteries of Snake/Uroburos. Retrieved December 11, 2014.
392. Faou, M. (2020, May). From Agent.btz to ComRAT v4: A ten-
year journey. Retrieved June 15, 2020.
393. O'Leary, J., et al. (2017, September 20). Insights into Iranian
Cyber Espionage: APT33 Targets Aerospace and Energy
Sectors and has Ties to Destructive Malware. Retrieved
February 15, 2018.
394. US-CERT. (2018, June 14). MAR-10135536-12 – North Korean
Trojan: TYPEFRAME. Retrieved July 13, 2018.
395. Settle, A., et al. (2016, August 8). MONSOON - Analysis Of An
APT Campaign. Retrieved September 22, 2016.
39. Matsuda, A., Muhammad I. (2018, September 13). APT10
Targeting Japanese Corporations Using Updated TTPs.
Retrieved September 17, 2018.
397. FBI et al. (2023, May 9). Hunting Russian Intelligence “Snake”
Malware. Retrieved June 8, 2023.
39. Caragay, R. (2015, March 26). URSNIF: The Multifaceted
Malware. Retrieved June 5, 2019.
399. Salem, E. et al. (2020, May 28). VALAK: MORE THAN MEETS
THE EYE . Retrieved June 19, 2020.
400. Reaves, J. and Platt, J. (2020, June). Valak Malware and the
Connection to Gozi Loader ConfCrew. Retrieved August 31,
2020.
401. Lancaster, T., Cortes, J. (2018, January 29). VERMIN: Quasar
RAT and Custom Malware Used In Ukraine. Retrieved July 5,
2018.
402. US-CERT. (2017, November 22). Alert (TA17-318B): HIDDEN
COBRA – North Korean Trojan: Volgmer. Retrieved December
7, 2017.
403. US-CERT. (2017, November 01). Malware Analysis Report
(MAR) - 10135536-D. Retrieved July 16, 2018.
404. Yagi, J. (2014, August 24). Trojan.Volgmer. Retrieved July 16,
2018.
405. Microsoft Threat Intelligence. (2023, May 24). Volt Typhoon
targets US critical infrastructure with living-off-the-land
techniques. Retrieved July 27, 2023.
40. NSA et al. (2023, May 24). People's Republic of China State-
Sponsored Cyber Actor Living off the Land to Evade Detection.
Retrieved July 27, 2023.
407. Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2023, May 24). Chinese
Cyberespionage Group BRONZE SILHOUETTE Targets U.S.
Government and Defense Organizations. Retrieved July 27,
2023.
40. Harakhavik, Y. (2020, February 3). Warzone: Behind the enemy
lines. Retrieved December 17, 2021.
409. PWC. (2020, July 16). How WellMess malware has been used
to target COVID-19 vaccines. Retrieved September 24, 2020.
410. CISA. (2020, July 16). MAR-10296782-2.v1 – WELLMESS.
Retrieved September 24, 2020.3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Information Discovery, Technique T1082 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1082/ 29/29197. Fernando Merces, Byron Gelera, Martin Co. (2018, June 7).
KillDisk Variant Hits Latin American Finance Industry.
Retrieved January 12, 2021.
19. Tarakanov , D.. (2013, September 11). The “Kimsuky”
Operation: A North Korean APT?. Retrieved August 13, 2019.
199. An, J and Malhotra, A. (2021, November 10). North Korean
attackers use malicious blogs to deliver malware to high-
proﬁle South Korean targets. Retrieved December 29, 2021.
200. Jazi, H. (2021, February). LazyScripter: From Empire to double
RAT. Retrieved November 24, 2021.
201. M.Leveille, M., Sanmillan, I. (2021, January). A WILD
KOBALOS APPEARS Tricksy Linux malware goes after HPCs.
Retrieved August 24, 2021.
202. Carr, N.. (2017, May 14). Cyber Espionage is Alive and Well:
APT32 and the Threat to Global Corporations. Retrieved June
18, 2017.
203. Rascagneres, P. (2017, May 03). KONNI: A Malware Under The
Radar For Years. Retrieved November 5, 2018.
204. Karmi, D. (2020, January 4). A Look Into Konni 2019
Campaign. Retrieved April 28, 2020.
205. Threat Intelligence Team. (2021, August 23). New variant of
Konni malware used in campaign targetting Russia. Retrieved
January 5, 2022.
20. Hawley, S. et al. (2023, February 2). Turla: A Galaxy of
Opportunity. Retrieved May 15, 2023.
207. Symantec Security Response Attack Investigation Team.
(2018, April 23). New Orangeworm attack group targets the
healthcare sector in the U.S., Europe, and Asia. Retrieved May
8, 2018.
20. Novetta Threat Research Group. (2016, February 24).
Operation Blockbuster: Unraveling the Long Thread of the
Sony Attack. Retrieved February 25, 2016.
209. Novetta Threat Research Group. (2016, February 24).
Operation Blockbuster: Destructive Malware Report. Retrieved
March 2, 2016.
210. Novetta Threat Research Group. (2016, February 24).
Operation Blockbuster: Loaders, Installers and Uninstallers
Report. Retrieved March 2, 2016.
211. Sherstobitoff, R. (2018, February 12). Lazarus Resurfaces,
Targets Global Banks and Bitcoin Users. Retrieved February
19, 2018.
212. Sherstobitoff, R., Malhotra, A. (2018, April 24). Analyzing
Operation GhostSecret: Attack Seeks to Steal Data Worldwide.
Retrieved May 16, 2018.
213. Saini, A. and Hossein, J. (2022, January 27). North Korea’s
Lazarus APT leverages Windows Update client, GitHub in
latest campaign. Retrieved January 27, 2022.
214. Faou, M. (2019, May). Turla LightNeuron: One email away
from remote code execution. Retrieved June 24, 2019.
215. Zhou, R. (2012, May 15). Backdoor.Linfo. Retrieved February
23, 2018.
21. BI.ZONE Cyber Threats Research Team. (2021, May 13). From
pentest to APT attack: cybercriminal group FIN7 disguises its
malware as an ethical hacker’s toolkit. Retrieved February 2,
2022.
217. Kazem, M. (2019, November 25). Trojan:W32/Lokibot.
Retrieved May 15, 2020.411. Biasini, N. et al.. (2022, January 21). Ukraine Campaign
Delivers Defacement and Wipers, in Continued Escalation.
Retrieved March 14, 2022.
412. The BlackBerry Research & Intelligence Team. (2020, October).
BAHAMUT: Hack-for-Hire Masters of Phishing, Fake News, and
Fake Apps. Retrieved February 8, 2021.
413. Anthe, C. et al. (2016, December 14). Microsoft Security
Intelligence Report Volume 21. Retrieved November 27, 2017.
414. Novetta Threat Research Group. (2015, April 7). Winnti
Analysis. Retrieved February 8, 2017.
415. The DFIR Report. (2020, October 8). Ryuk’s Return. Retrieved
October 9, 2020.
41. Shilko, J., et al. (2021, October 7). FIN12: The Proliﬁc
Ransomware Intrusion Threat Actor That Has Aggressively
Pursued Healthcare Targets. Retrieved June 15, 2023.
417. MalwareBytes Threat Intelligence Team. (2022, August 3).
Woody RAT: A new feature-rich malware spotted in the wild.
Retrieved December 6, 2022.
41. Robert Falcone. (2017, February 14). XAgentOSX: Sofacy's
Xagent macOS Tool. Retrieved July 12, 2017.
419. Mac Threat Response, Mobile Research Team. (2020, August
13). The XCSSET Malware: Inserts Malicious Code Into Xcode
Projects, Performs UXSS Backdoor Planting in Safari, and
Leverages Two Zero-day Exploits. Retrieved October 5, 2021.
420. Schwarz, D., Sopko J. (2018, March 08). Donot Team
Leverages New Modular Malware Framework in South Asia.
Retrieved June 11, 2018.
421. Lee, B., Falcone, R. (2018, June 06). Sofacy Group’s Parallel
Attacks. Retrieved June 18, 2018.
422. ESET. (2018, November 20). Sednit: What’s going on with
Zebrocy?. Retrieved February 12, 2019.
423. ESET Research. (2019, May 22). A journey to Zebrocy land.
Retrieved June 20, 2019.
424. Accenture Security. (2018, November 29). SNAKEMACKEREL.
Retrieved April 15, 2019.
425. CISA. (2020, October 29). Malware Analysis Report (AR20-
303B). Retrieved December 9, 2020.
42. Huss, D., et al. (2017, February 2). Oops, they did it again: APT
Targets Russia and Belarus with ZeroT and PlugX. Retrieved
April 5, 2018.
427. Brumaghin, E., et al. (2017, November 02). Poisoning the Well:
Banking Trojan Targets Google Search Results. Retrieved
November 5, 2018.
42. Ebach, L. (2017, June 22). Analysis Results of
Zeus.Variant.Panda. Retrieved November 5, 2018.
429. Singh, S. and Antil, S. (2020, October 27). APT-31 Leverages
COVID-19 Vaccine Theme and Abuses Legitimate Online
Services. Retrieved March 24, 2021.
430. Novetta. (n.d.). Operation SMN: Axiom Threat Actor Group
Report. Retrieved November 12, 2014.
431. McAfee® Foundstone® Professional Services and McAfee
Labs™. (2011, February 10). Global Energy Cyberattacks:
“Night Dragon”. Retrieved February 19, 2018.
432. Allievi, A., et al. (2014, October 28). Threat Spotlight: Group 72,
Opening the ZxShell. Retrieved September 24, 2019.
433. Raghuprasad, C . (2022, May 11). Bitter APT adds Bangladesh
to their targets. Retrieved June 1, 2022.