3/22/24, 3:44 PM Obfuscated Files or Information: Binary Padding, Sub-technique T1027.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1027/001/ 1/6Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:44 PM Obfuscated Files or Information: Binary Padding, Sub-technique T1027.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1027/001/ 2/6Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Obfuscated Files or Information>Binary Padding3/22/24, 3:44 PM Obfuscated Files or Information: Binary Padding, Sub-technique T1027.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1027/001/ 3/6Obfuscated Files or Information: Binary Padding
Adversaries may use binary padding to add junk data and change the on-disk representation of malware. This can be done without affecting
the functionality or behavior of a binary, but can increase the size of the binary beyond what some security tools are capable of handling due
to ﬁle size limitations.
Binary padding effectively changes the checksum of the ﬁle and can also be used to avoid hash-based blocklists and static anti-virus
signatures. The padding used is commonly generated by a function to create junk data and then appended to the end or applied to
sections of malware. Increasing the ﬁle size may decrease the effectiveness of certain tools and detection capabilities that are not
designed or conﬁgured to scan large ﬁles. This may also reduce the likelihood of being collected for analysis. Public ﬁle scanning services,
such as VirusTotal, limits the maximum size of an uploaded ﬁle to be analyzed.Other sub-techniques of Obfuscated Files or Information (12)
[1]
[2]
[3]
Version PermalinkID: T1027.001
Sub-technique of:  T1027

Tactic: Defense Evasion

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS

Defense Bypassed: Anti-virus, Signature-based detection
Contributors: Martin Jirkal, ESET
Version: 1.2
Created: 05 February 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 30 March 20233/22/24, 3:44 PM Obfuscated Files or Information: Binary Padding, Sub-technique T1027.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1027/001/ 4/6Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0016 APT29 APT29 used large size ﬁles to avoid detection by security solutions with hardcoded size limits.
G0050 APT32 APT32 includes garbage code to mislead anti-malware software and researchers.
S0268 Bisonal Bisonal has appended random binary data to the end of itself to generate a large binary.
S1070 Black Basta Black Basta had added data prior to the Portable Executable (PE) header to prevent automatic scanners
from identifying the payload.
G0060 BRONZE BUTLER BRONZE BUTLER downloader code has included "0" characters at the end of the ﬁle to inﬂate the ﬁle size
in a likely attempt to evade anti-virus detection.
S0244 Comnie Comnie appends a total of 64MB of garbage data to a ﬁle to deter any security products in place that
may be scanning ﬁles on disk.
S0137 CORESHELL CORESHELL contains unused machine instructions in a likely attempt to hinder analysis.
S0614 CostaBricks CostaBricks has added the entire unobfuscated code of the legitimate open source application Blink to
its code.
G1003 Ember Bear Ember Bear has added extra spaces between JavaScript code characters to increase the overall ﬁle size.
S0082 Emissary A variant of Emissary appends junk data to the end of its DLL ﬁle to create a large ﬁle that may exceed
the maximum size that anti-virus programs can scan.
S0512 FatDuke FatDuke has been packed with junk code and strings.
G0046 FIN7 FIN7 has used random junk code to obfuscate malware code.
S0182 FinFisher FinFisher contains junk code in its functions in an effort to confuse disassembly programs.
G0047 Gamaredon
GroupGamaredon Group has obfuscated .NET executables by inserting junk code.
S0666 Gelsemium Gelsemium can use junk code to hide functions and evade detection.
S0477 Goopy Goopy has had null characters padded in its malicious DLL payload.
S0531 Grandoreiro Grandoreiro has added BMP images to the resources section of its Portable Executable (PE) ﬁle
increasing each binary to at least 300MB in size.
S0632 GrimAgent GrimAgent has the ability to add bytes to change the ﬁle hash.
G0126 Higaisa Higaisa performed padding with null bytes before calculating its hash.
S0528 Javali Javali can use large obfuscated libraries to hinder detection and analysis.
S0236 Kwampirs Before writing to disk, Kwampirs inserts a randomly generated string into the middle of the decrypted
payload in an attempt to evade hash-based detections.
G0065 Leviathan Leviathan has inserted garbage characters into code, presumably to avoid anti-virus detection.
S0449 Maze Maze has inserted large blocks of junk code, including some components to decrypt strings and other
important information for later in the encryption process.[4]
[1][5]
[6]
[7]
[8][9]
[10]
[11]
[12]
[13]
[14]
[15]
[16]
[17][18]
[19]
[20]
[21]
[22]
[23]
[24]
[25]
[26]
[27]
[28]3/22/24, 3:44 PM Obfuscated Files or Information: Binary Padding, Sub-technique T1027.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1027/001/ 5/6ID Name Description
G0002 Moafee Moafee has been known to employ binary padding.
G0129 Mustang Panda Mustang Panda has used junk code within their DLL ﬁles to hinder analysis.
G0040 Patchwork Patchwork apparently altered NDiskMonitor samples by adding four bytes of random letters in a likely
attempt to change the ﬁle hashes.
S0223 POWERSTATS POWERSTATS has used useless code blocks to counter analysis.
S0650 QakBot QakBot can use large ﬁle sizes to evade detection.
S0433 Rifdoor Rifdoor has added four additional bytes of data upon launching, then saved the changed version as
C:\ProgramData\Initech\Initech.exe .
S0370 SamSam SamSam has used garbage code to pad some of its malware components.
S1086 Snip3 Snip3 can obfuscate strings using junk Chinese characters.
S0586 TAINTEDSCRIBE TAINTEDSCRIBE can execute FileRecvWriteRand to append random bytes to the end of a ﬁle received
from C2.
S0612 WastedLocker WastedLocker contains junk code to increase its entropy and hide the actual code.
S0117 XTunnel A version of XTunnel introduced in July 2015 inserted junk code into the binary in a likely attempt to
obfuscate it and bypass security products.
S0248 yty yty contains junk code in its binary, likely to confuse malware analysts.
S0230 ZeroT ZeroT has obfuscated DLLs and functions using dummy API calls inserted between real instructions.
Mitigations
This type of attack technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on the abuse of system features.
Detection
ID Data SourceData ComponentDetects
DS0022 File File Metadata Depending on the method used to pad ﬁles, a ﬁle-based signature may be capable of detecting
padding using a scanning or on-access based tool. When executed, the resulting process from
padded ﬁles may also exhibit other behavior characteristics of being used to conduct an
intrusion such as system and network information Discovery or Lateral Movement, which could
be used as event indicators that point to the source ﬁle.[29]
[30]
[31]
[32]
[33][34]
[35]
[36]
[37]
[38]
[39]
[40]
[41]
[42]3/22/24, 3:44 PM Obfuscated Files or Information: Binary Padding, Sub-technique T1027.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1027/001/ 6/6References
1. Foltýn, T. (2018, March 13). OceanLotus ships new backdoor
using old tricks. Retrieved May 22, 2018.
2. Ishimaru, S.. (2017, April 13). Old Malware Tricks To Bypass
Detection in the Age of Big Data. Retrieved May 30, 2019.
3. VirusTotal. (n.d.). VirusTotal FAQ. Retrieved May 23, 2019.
4. Guerrero-Saade, J. (2021, June 1). NobleBaron | New Poisoned
Installers Could Be Used In Supply Chain Attacks. Retrieved
August 4, 2021.
5. Dumont, R. (2019, March 20). Fake or Fake: Keeping up with
OceanLotus decoys. Retrieved April 1, 2019.
. Mercer, W., et al. (2020, March 5). Bisonal: 10 years of play.
Retrieved January 26, 2022.
7. Check Point. (2022, October 20). BLACK BASTA AND THE
UNNOTICED DELIVERY. Retrieved March 8, 2023.
. Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2017, October 12).
BRONZE BUTLER Targets Japanese Enterprises. Retrieved
January 4, 2018.
9. Chen, J. et al. (2019, November). Operation ENDTRADE: TICK’s
Multi-Stage Backdoors for Attacking Industries and Stealing
Classiﬁed Data. Retrieved June 9, 2020.
10. Grunzweig, J. (2018, January 31). Comnie Continues to Target
Organizations in East Asia. Retrieved June 7, 2018.
11. FireEye. (2015). APT28: A WINDOW INTO RUSSIA’S CYBER
ESPIONAGE OPERATIONS?. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
12. The BlackBerry Research and Intelligence Team. (2020,
November 12). The CostaRicto Campaign: Cyber-Espionage
Outsourced. Retrieved May 24, 2021.
13. Unit 42. (2022, February 25). Spear Phishing Attacks Target
Organizations in Ukraine, Payloads Include the Document
Stealer OutSteel and the Downloader SaintBot. Retrieved June
9, 2022.
14. Falcone, R. and Miller-Osborn, J. (2016, February 3). Emissary
Trojan Changelog: Did Operation Lotus Blossom Cause It to
Evolve?. Retrieved February 15, 2016.
15. Faou, M., Tartare, M., Dupuy, T. (2019, October). OPERATION
GHOST. Retrieved September 23, 2020.
1. Abdo, B., et al. (2022, April 4). FIN7 Power Hour: Adversary
Archaeology and the Evolution of FIN7. Retrieved April 5,
2022.
17. FinFisher. (n.d.). Retrieved December 20, 2017.
1. Allievi, A.,Flori, E. (2018, March 01). FinFisher exposed: A
researcher’s tale of defeating traps, tricks, and complex virtual
machines. Retrieved July 9, 2018.
19. Boutin, J. (2020, June 11). Gamaredon group grows its game.
Retrieved June 16, 2020.
20. Dupuy, T. and Faou, M. (2021, June). Gelsemium. Retrieved
November 30, 2021.
21. Dahan, A. (2017). Operation Cobalt Kitty. Retrieved December
27, 2018.22. ESET. (2020, April 28). Grandoreiro: How engorged can an EXE
get?. Retrieved November 13, 2020.
23. Priego, A. (2021, July). THE BROTHERS GRIM: THE
REVERSING TALE OF GRIMAGENT MALWARE USED BY RYUK.
Retrieved July 16, 2021.
24. Singh, S. Singh, A. (2020, June 11). The Return on the Higaisa
APT. Retrieved March 2, 2021.
25. GReAT. (2020, July 14). The Tetrade: Brazilian banking
malware goes global. Retrieved November 9, 2020.
2. Symantec Security Response Attack Investigation Team.
(2018, April 23). New Orangeworm attack group targets the
healthcare sector in the U.S., Europe, and Asia. Retrieved May
8, 2018.
27. Axel F, Pierre T. (2017, October 16). Leviathan: Espionage actor
spearphishes maritime and defense targets. Retrieved
February 15, 2018.
2. Mundo, A. (2020, March 26). Ransomware Maze. Retrieved
May 18, 2020.
29. Haq, T., Moran, N., Scott, M., & Vashisht, S. O. (2014,
September 10). The Path to Mass-Producing Cyber Attacks
[Blog]. Retrieved November 12, 2014.
30. Hamzeloofard, S. (2020, January 31). New wave of PlugX
targets Hong Kong | Avira Blog. Retrieved April 13, 2021.
31. Lunghi, D., et al. (2017, December). Untangling the Patchwork
Cyberespionage Group. Retrieved July 10, 2018.
32. Lunghi, D. and Horejsi, J.. (2019, June 10). MuddyWater
Resurfaces, Uses Multi-Stage Backdoor POWERSTATS V3 and
New Post-Exploitation Tools. Retrieved May 14, 2020.
33. Mendoza, E. et al. (2020, May 25). Qakbot Resurges, Spreads
through VBS Files. Retrieved September 27, 2021.
34. Group IB. (2020, September). LOCK LIKE A PRO. Retrieved
September 27, 2021.
35. Knight, S.. (2020, April 16). VMware Carbon Black TAU Threat
Analysis: The Evolution of Lazarus. Retrieved May 1, 2020.
3. Palotay, D. and Mackenzie, P. (2018, April). SamSam
Ransomware Chooses Its Targets Carefully. Retrieved April 15,
2019.
37. Lorber, N. (2021, May 7). Revealing the Snip3 Crypter, a Highly
Evasive RAT Loader. Retrieved September 13, 2023.
3. USG. (2020, May 12). MAR-10288834-2.v1 – North Korean
Trojan: TAINTEDSCRIBE. Retrieved March 5, 2021.
39. Antenucci, S., Pantazopoulos, N., Sandee, M. (2020, June 23).
WastedLocker: A New Ransomware Variant Developed By The
Evil Corp Group. Retrieved September 14, 2021.
40. ESET. (2016, October). En Route with Sednit - Part 2:
Observing the Comings and Goings. Retrieved November 21,
2016.
41. Schwarz, D., Sopko J. (2018, March 08). Donot Team
Leverages New Modular Malware Framework in South Asia.
Retrieved June 11, 2018.
42. Huss, D., et al. (2017, February 2). Oops, they did it again: APT
Targets Russia and Belarus with ZeroT and PlugX. Retrieved
April 5, 2018.