3/22/24, 3:35 PM Replication Through Removable Media, Technique T1091 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1091/ 1/6Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:35 PM Replication Through Removable Media, Technique T1091 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1091/ 2/6Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Replication Through Removable Media3/22/24, 3:35 PM Replication Through Removable Media, Technique T1091 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1091/ 3/6Replication Through Removable Media
Adversaries may move onto systems, possibly those on disconnected or air-gapped networks, by copying malware to removable media and
taking advantage of Autorun features when the media is inserted into a system and executes. In the case of Lateral Movement, this may
occur through modiﬁcation of executable ﬁles stored on removable media or by copying malware and renaming it to look like a legitimate
ﬁle to trick users into executing it on a separate system. In the case of Initial Access, this may occur through manual manipulation of the
media, modiﬁcation of systems used to initially format the media, or modiﬁcation to the media's ﬁrmware itself.
Mobile devices may also be used to infect PCs with malware if connected via USB. This infection may be achieved using devices (Android,
iOS, etc.) and, in some instances, USB charging cables. For example, when a smartphone is connected to a system, it may appear to be
mounted similar to a USB-connected disk drive. If malware that is compatible with the connected system is on the mobile device, the
malware could infect the machine (especially if Autorun features are enabled).[1]
[2][3]
Version PermalinkID: T1091
Sub-techniques:  No sub-techniques

Tactics: Lateral Movement, Initial Access

Platforms: Windows

System Requirements: Removable media allowed, Autorun enabled or vulnerability present that allows for code execution
Contributors: Joas Antonio dos Santos, @C0d3Cr4zy
Version: 1.2
Created: 31 May 2017
Last Modiﬁed: 17 October 20233/22/24, 3:35 PM Replication Through Removable Media, Technique T1091 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1091/ 4/6Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0092 Agent.btz Agent.btz drops itself onto removable media devices and creates an autorun.inf ﬁle with an instruction to
run that ﬁle. When the device is inserted into another system, it opens autorun.inf and loads the malware.
S1074 ANDROMEDA ANDROMEDA has been spread via infected USB keys.
G1007 Aoqin Dragon Aoqin Dragon has used a dropper that employs a worm infection strategy using a removable device to
breach a secure network environment.
G0007 APT28 APT28 uses a tool to infect connected USB devices and transmit itself to air-gapped computers when the
infected USB device is inserted.
S0023 CHOPSTICK Part of APT28's operation involved using CHOPSTICK modules to copy itself to air-gapped machines and
using ﬁles written to USB sticks to transfer data and command traﬃc.
S0608 Conﬁcker Conﬁcker variants used the Windows AUTORUN feature to spread through USB propagation.
S0115 Crimson Crimson can spread across systems by infecting removable media.
G0012 Darkhotel Darkhotel's selective infector modiﬁes executables stored on removable media as a method of spreading
across computers.
S0062 DustySky DustySky searches for removable media and duplicates itself onto it.
G0046 FIN7 FIN7 actors have mailed USB drives to potential victims containing malware that downloads and installs
various backdoors, including in some cases for ransomware operations.
S0143 Flame Flame contains modules to infect USB sticks and spread laterally to other Windows systems the stick is
plugged into using Autorun functionality.
S0132 H1N1 H1N1 has functionality to copy itself to removable media.
G1014 LuminousMoth LuminousMoth has used malicious DLLs to spread malware to connected removable USB drives on
infected machines.
G0129 Mustang
PandaMustang Panda has used a customized PlugX variant which could spread through USB connections.
S0385 njRAT njRAT can be conﬁgured to spread via removable drives.
S0650 QakBot QakBot has the ability to use removable drives to spread through compromised networks.
S0458 Ramsay Ramsay can spread itself by infecting other portable executable ﬁles on removable drives.
S0028 SHIPSHAPE APT30 may have used the SHIPSHAPE malware to move onto air-gapped networks. SHIPSHAPE targets
removable drives to spread to other systems by modifying the drive to use Autorun to execute or by hiding
legitimate document ﬁles and copying an executable to the folder with the same name as the legitimate
document.
S0603 Stuxnet Stuxnet can propagate via removable media using an autorun.inf ﬁle or the CVE-2010-2568 LNK
vulnerability.
G0081 Tropic Trooper Tropic Trooper has attempted to transfer USBferry from an infected USB device by copying an Autorun
function to the target machine.
S0130 Unknown
LoggerUnknown Logger is capable of spreading to USB devices.[4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8][7][9]
[10][11]
[12]
[13]
[14]
[15]
[16]
[17]
[18][19]
[20]
[21][22]
[23]
[24]
[25]
[26]
[27]
[28]3/22/24, 3:35 PM Replication Through Removable Media, Technique T1091 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1091/ 5/6ID Name Description
S0386 Ursnif Ursnif has copied itself to and infected removable drives for propagation.
S0452 USBferry USBferry can copy its installer to attached USB storage devices.
S0136 USBStealer USBStealer drops itself onto removable media and relies on Autorun to execute the malicious ﬁle when a
user opens the removable media on another system.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1040 Behavior Prevention on
EndpointOn Windows 10, enable Attack Surface Reduction (ASR) rules to block unsigned/untrusted
executable ﬁles (such as .exe, .dll, or .scr) from running from USB removable drives. 
M1042 Disable or Remove
Feature or ProgramDisable Autorun if it is unnecessary. Disallow or restrict removable media at an organizational
policy level if it is not required for business operations. 
M1034 Limit Hardware
InstallationLimit the use of USB devices and removable media within a network.
Detection
ID Data SourceData ComponentDetects
DS0016 Drive Drive Creation Monitor for newly constructed drive letters or mount points to removable media
DS0022 File File Access Monitor for unexpected ﬁles accessed on removable media.
File Creation Monitor for newly constructed ﬁles on removable media
DS0009 Process Process
CreationMonitor for newly executed processes that execute from removable media after it is mounted
or when initiated by a user. If a remote access tool is used in this manner to move laterally,
then additional actions are likely to occur after execution, such as opening network
connections for Command and Control and system and network information Discovery.[29][30]
[27]
[31]
[32]
[33]
[34]3/22/24, 3:35 PM Replication Through Removable Media, Technique T1091 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1091/ 6/6References
1. Zhaohui Wang & Angelos Stavrou. (n.d.). Exploiting Smart-
Phone USB Connectivity For Fun And Proﬁt. Retrieved May 25,
2022.
2. Lucian Constantin. (2014, January 23). Windows malware
tries to infect Android devices connected to PCs. Retrieved
May 25, 2022.
3. Zack Whittaker. (2019, August 12). This hacker’s iPhone
charging cable can hijack your computer. Retrieved May 25,
2022.
4. Shevchenko, S.. (2008, November 30). Agent.btz - A Threat
That Hit Pentagon. Retrieved April 8, 2016.
5. Hawley, S. et al. (2023, February 2). Turla: A Galaxy of
Opportunity. Retrieved May 15, 2023.
. Chen, Joey. (2022, June 9). Aoqin Dragon | Newly-Discovered
Chinese-linked APT Has Been Quietly Spying On
Organizations For 10 Years. Retrieved July 14, 2022.
7. Anthe, C. et al. (2015, October 19). Microsoft Security
Intelligence Report Volume 19. Retrieved December 23, 2015.
. FireEye. (2015). APT28: A WINDOW INTO RUSSIA’S CYBER
ESPIONAGE OPERATIONS?. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
9. Secureworks CTU. (2017, March 30). IRON TWILIGHT
Supports Active Measures. Retrieved February 28, 2022.
10. Burton, K. (n.d.). The Conﬁcker Worm. Retrieved February 18,
2021.
11. Trend Micro. (2014, March 18). Conﬁcker. Retrieved February
18, 2021.
12. Dedola, G. (2020, August 20). Transparent Tribe: Evolution
analysis, part 1. Retrieved September 2, 2021.
13. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research and Analysis Team. (2014,
November). The Darkhotel APT A Story of Unusual Hospitality.
Retrieved November 12, 2014.
14. ClearSky. (2016, January 7). Operation DustySky. Retrieved
January 8, 2016.
15. The Record. (2022, January 7). FBI: FIN7 hackers target US
companies with BadUSB devices to install ransomware.
Retrieved January 14, 2022.
1. Gostev, A. (2012, May 28). The Flame: Questions and
Answers. Retrieved March 1, 2017.
17. Reynolds, J.. (2016, September 14). H1N1: Technical analysis
reveals new capabilities – part 2. Retrieved September 26,
2016.1. Lechtik, M, and etl. (2021, July 14). LuminousMoth APT:
Sweeping attacks for the chosen few. Retrieved October 20,
2022.
19. Botezatu, B and etl. (2021, July 21). LuminousMoth - PlugX,
File Exﬁltration and Persistence Revisited. Retrieved October
20, 2022.
20. Hamzeloofard, S. (2020, January 31). New wave of PlugX
targets Hong Kong | Avira Blog. Retrieved April 13, 2021.
21. Fidelis Cybersecurity. (2013, June 28). Fidelis Threat Advisory
#1009: "njRAT" Uncovered. Retrieved June 4, 2019.
22. Pascual, C. (2018, November 27). AutoIt-Compiled Worm
Affecting Removable Media Delivers Fileless Version of
BLADABINDI/njRAT Backdoor. Retrieved June 4, 2019.
23. Mendoza, E. et al. (2020, May 25). Qakbot Resurges, Spreads
through VBS Files. Retrieved September 27, 2021.
24. Sanmillan, I.. (2020, May 13). Ramsay: A cyber‑espionage
toolkit tailored for air‑gapped networks. Retrieved May 27,
2020.
25. FireEye Labs. (2015, April). APT30 AND THE MECHANICS OF
A LONG-RUNNING CYBER ESPIONAGE OPERATION. Retrieved
May 1, 2015.
2. Nicolas Falliere, Liam O Murchu, Eric Chien 2011, February
W32.Stuxnet Dossier (Version 1.4) Retrieved. 2017/09/22
27. Chen, J.. (2020, May 12). Tropic Trooper’s Back: USBferry
Attack Targets Air gapped Environments. Retrieved May 20,
2020.
2. Settle, A., et al. (2016, August 8). MONSOON - Analysis Of An
APT Campaign. Retrieved September 22, 2016.
29. Caragay, R. (2015, March 26). URSNIF: The Multifaceted
Malware. Retrieved June 5, 2019.
30. Caragay, R. (2014, December 11). Info-Stealing File Infector
Hits US, UK. Retrieved June 5, 2019.
31. Calvet, J. (2014, November 11). Sednit Espionage Group
Attacking Air-Gapped Networks. Retrieved January 4, 2017.
32. Microsoft. (2021, July 2). Use attack surface reduction rules to
prevent malware infection. Retrieved June 24, 2021.
33. Microsoft. (n.d.). How to disable the Autorun functionality in
Windows. Retrieved April 20, 2016.
34. Microsoft. (2007, August 31).
https://technet.microsoft.com/en-
us/library/cc771759(v=ws.10).aspx. Retrieved April 20, 2016.