3/22/24, 3:48 PM Password Policy Discovery, Technique T1201 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1201/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:48 PM Password Policy Discovery, Technique T1201 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1201/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Password Policy Discovery3/22/24, 3:48 PM Password Policy Discovery, Technique T1201 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1201/ 3/4Password Policy Discovery
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0521 BloodHound BloodHound can collect password policy information on the target environment.
G0114 Chimera Chimera has used the NtdsAudit utility to collect information related to accounts and passwords.
S0488 CrackMapExec CrackMapExec can discover the password policies applied to the target system.
S0236 Kwampirs Kwampirs collects password policy information with the command net accounts .
S0039 Net The net accounts and net accounts /domain commands with Net can be used to obtain
password policy information.
G0049 OilRig OilRig has used net.exe in a script with net accounts /domain to ﬁnd the password policy of a
domain.
C0012 Operation
CuckooBeesDuring Operation CuckooBees, the threat actors used the net accounts command as part of their
advanced reconnaissance.
S0378 PoshC2 PoshC2 can use Get-PassPol to enumerate the domain password policy.
G0010 Turla Turla has used net accounts and net accounts /domain to acquire password policy information.Adversaries may attempt to access detailed information about the password policy used within an enterprise network or cloud environment.
Password policies are a way to enforce complex passwords that are diﬃcult to guess or crack through Brute Force. This information may
help the adversary to create a list of common passwords and launch dictionary and/or brute force attacks which adheres to the policy (e.g. if
the minimum password length should be 8, then not trying passwords such as 'pass123'; not checking for more than 3-4 passwords per
account if the lockout is set to 6 as to not lock out accounts).
Password policies can be set and discovered on Windows, Linux, and macOS systems via various command shell utilities such as net
accounts (/domain) , Get-ADDefaultDomainPasswordPolicy , chage -l , cat /etc/pam.d/common-password , and pwpolicy
getaccountpolicies . Adversaries may also leverage a Network Device CLI on network devices to discover password policy
information (e.g. show aaa , show aaa common-criteria policy all ).
Password policies can be discovered in cloud environments using available APIs such as GetAccountPasswordPolicy in AWS .[1][2]
[3]
[4]
Version PermalinkID: T1201
Sub-techniques:  No sub-techniques

Tactic: Discovery

Platforms: IaaS, Linux, Network, Windows, macOS
Contributors: Austin Clark, @c2defense; Isif Ibrahima, Mandiant; Regina Elwell; Sudhanshu Chauhan, @Sudhanshu\_C
Version: 1.5
Created: 18 April 2018
Last Modiﬁed: 06 September 2022
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]
[12]
[13]3/22/24, 3:48 PM Password Policy Discovery, Technique T1201 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1201/ 4/4Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1027 Password
PoliciesEnsure only valid password ﬁlters are registered. Filter DLLs must be present in Windows installation directory
(C:\Windows\System32\ by default) of a domain controller and/or local computer with a corresponding entry
in HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Lsa\Notification Packages . 
Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments for actions that may attempt to access
detailed information about the password policy used within an enterprise network or cloud
environment. For network devices, monitor executed commands in AAA logs, especially
those run by unexpected or unauthorized users.
DS0009 Process Process
CreationMonitor for newly executed processes that may attempt to access detailed information
about the password policy used within an enterprise network or cloud environment.
DS0002 User AccountUser Account
MetadataMonitor for contextual data about an account that may attempt to access detailed
information about the password policy used within an enterprise network or cloud
environment.
References[14]
1. Matutiae, M. (2014, August 6). How to display password
policy information for a user (Ubuntu)?. Retrieved April 5,
2018.
2. Holland, J. (2016, January 25). User password policies on non
AD machines. Retrieved April 5, 2018.
3. US-CERT. (2018, April 20). Alert (TA18-106A) Russian State-
Sponsored Cyber Actors Targeting Network Infrastructure
Devices. Retrieved October 19, 2020.
4. Amazon Web Services. (n.d.). AWS API
GetAccountPasswordPolicy. Retrieved June 8, 2021.
5. Red Team Labs. (2018, April 24). Hidden Administrative
Accounts: BloodHound to the Rescue. Retrieved October 28,
2020.
. Jansen, W . (2021, January 12). Abusing cloud services to ﬂy
under the radar. Retrieved January 19, 2021.
7. byt3bl33d3r. (2018, September 8). SMB: Command Reference.
Retrieved July 17, 2020.. Symantec Security Response Attack Investigation Team.
(2018, April 23). New Orangeworm attack group targets the
healthcare sector in the U.S., Europe, and Asia. Retrieved May
8, 2018.
9. Savill, J. (1999, March 4). Net.exe reference. Retrieved
September 22, 2015.
10. Singh, S., Yin, H. (2016, May 22).
https://www.ﬁreeye.com/blog/threat-
research/2016/05/targeted\_attacksaga.html. Retrieved April
5, 2018.
11. Cybereason Nocturnus. (2022, May 4). Operation CuckooBees:
Deep-Dive into Stealthy Winnti Techniques. Retrieved
September 22, 2022.
12. Nettitude. (2018, July 23). Python Server for PoshC2.
Retrieved April 23, 2019.
13. Faou, M. (2020, May). From Agent.btz to ComRAT v4: A ten-
year journey. Retrieved June 15, 2020.
14. Microsoft. (n.d.). Installing and Registering a Password Filter
DLL. Retrieved November 21, 2017.