3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter: JavaScript, Sub-technique T1059.007 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/007/ 1/8Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter: JavaScript, Sub-technique T1059.007 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/007/ 2/8Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Command and Scripting Interpreter>JavaScript3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter: JavaScript, Sub-technique T1059.007 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/007/ 3/8Command and Scripting Interpreter: JavaScript
Adversaries may abuse various implementations of JavaScript for execution. JavaScript (JS) is a platform-independent scripting language
(compiled just-in-time at runtime) commonly associated with scripts in webpages, though JS can be executed in runtime environments
outside the browser.
JScript is the Microsoft implementation of the same scripting standard. JScript is interpreted via the Windows Script engine and thus
integrated with many components of Windows such as the Component Object Model and Internet Explorer HTML Application (HTA) pages.
JavaScript for Automation (JXA) is a macOS scripting language based on JavaScript, included as part of Apple’s Open Scripting Architecture
(OSA), that was introduced in OSX 10.10. Apple’s OSA provides scripting capabilities to control applications, interface with the operating
system, and bridge access into the rest of Apple’s internal APIs. As of OSX 10.10, OSA only supports two languages, JXA and AppleScript.
Scripts can be executed via the command line utility osascript , they can be compiled into applications or script ﬁles via osacompile , and
they can be compiled and executed in memory of other programs by leveraging the OSAKit Framework.
Adversaries may abuse various implementations of JavaScript to execute various behaviors. Common uses include hosting malicious
scripts on websites as part of a Drive-by Compromise or downloading and executing these script ﬁles as secondary payloads. Since these
payloads are text-based, it is also very common for adversaries to obfuscate their content as part of Obfuscated Files or Information.Other sub-techniques of Command and Scripting Interpreter (9)
[1]
[2]
[3][4]
[5][6][7][8][9]
Version PermalinkID: T1059.007
Sub-technique of:  T1059

Tactic: Execution

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS

Permissions Required: Administrator, SYSTEM, User
Contributors: Cody Thomas, SpecterOps
Version: 2.1
Created: 23 June 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 16 August 20213/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter: JavaScript, Sub-technique T1059.007 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/007/ 4/8Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0622 AppleSeed AppleSeed has the ability to use JavaScript to execute PowerShell.
G0050 APT32 APT32 has used JavaScript for drive-by downloads and C2 communications.
S0373 Astaroth Astaroth uses JavaScript to perform its core functionalities. 
S0640 Avaddon Avaddon has been executed through a malicious JScript downloader.
S0482 Bundlore Bundlore can execute JavaScript by injecting it into the victim's browser.
C0015 C0015 During C0015, the threat actors used a malicious HTA ﬁle that contained a mix of encoded HTML and
JavaScript/VBScript code.
C0017 C0017 During C0017, APT41 deployed JScript web shells on compromised systems.
S0631 Chaes Chaes has used JavaScript and Node.Js information stealer script that exﬁltrates data using the
node process.
G0080 Cobalt Group Cobalt Group has executed JavaScript scriptlets on the victim's machine.
S0154 Cobalt Strike The Cobalt Strike System Proﬁler can use JavaScript to perform reconnaissance actions.
S0673 DarkWatchman DarkWatchman uses JavaScript to perform its core functionalities.
S0695 Donut Donut can generate shellcode outputs that execute via JavaScript or JScript.
G1006 Earth Lusca Earth Lusca has manipulated legitimate websites to inject malicious JavaScript code as part of their
watering hole operations.
G1003 Ember Bear Ember Bear has used JavaScript to execute malicious code on a victim's machine.
S0634 EnvyScout EnvyScout can write ﬁles to disk with JavaScript using a modiﬁed version of the open-source tool
FileSaver.
G0120 Evilnum Evilnum has used malicious JavaScript ﬁles on the victim's machine.
G0037 FIN6 FIN6 has used malicious JavaScript to steal payment card data from e-commerce sites.
G0046 FIN7 FIN7 used JavaScript scripts to help perform tasks on the victim's machine.
S0417 GRIFFON GRIFFON is written in and executed as JavaScript.
G0126 Higaisa Higaisa used JavaScript to execute additional ﬁles.
G0119 Indrik Spider Indrik Spider has used malicious JavaScript ﬁles for several components of their attack.
S0260 InvisiMole InvisiMole can use a JavaScript ﬁle as part of its execution chain.
S0283 jRAT jRAT has been distributed as HTA ﬁles with JScript.
S0648 JSS Loader JSS Loader can download and execute JavaScript ﬁles.
G0094 Kimsuky Kimsuky has used JScript for logging and downloading additional tools.
S0356 KONNI KONNI has executed malicious JavaScript code.[10]
[11][12]
[13][14]
[15][16]
[17]
[18]
[19]
[20]
[21][22][23][24][25][26]
[27]
[28]
[29]
[30]
[31]
[32]
[33]
[34]
[35][36][35]
[37]
[38][39][40]
[41]
[42]
[43]
[44]
[45][46]
[47]3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter: JavaScript, Sub-technique T1059.007 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/007/ 5/8ID Name Description
S1075 KOPILUWAK KOPILUWAK had used Javascript to perform its core functions.
G0140 LazyScripter LazyScripter has used JavaScript in its attacks.
G0077 Leafminer Leafminer infected victims using JavaScript code.
S0455 Metamorfo Metamorfo includes payloads written in JavaScript.
G0021 Molerats Molerats used various implants, including those built with JS, on target machines.
G1019 MoustachedBouncer MoustachedBouncer has used JavaScript to deliver malware hosted on HTML pages.
G0069 MuddyWater MuddyWater has used JavaScript ﬁles to execute its POWERSTATS payload.
S0228 NanHaiShu NanHaiShu executes additional Jscript code on the victim's machine.
C0016 Operation Dust
StormDuring Operation Dust Storm, the threat actors used JavaScript code.
S0223 POWERSTATS POWERSTATS can use JavaScript code for execution.
S0650 QakBot The QakBot web inject module can inject Java Script into web banking pages visited by the victim.
G0121 Sidewinder Sidewinder has used JavaScript to drop and execute malware loaders.
G0091 Silence Silence has used JS scripts.
S0646 SpicyOmelette SpicyOmelette has the ability to execute arbitrary JavaScript code on a compromised host.
G0092 TA505 TA505 has used JavaScript for code execution.
G0010 Turla Turla has used various JavaScript-based backdoors.
S0476 Valak Valak can execute JavaScript containing conﬁguration data for establishing persistence.
S0341 Xbash Xbash can execute malicious JavaScript payloads on the victim’s machine.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1040 Behavior Prevention
on EndpointOn Windows 10, enable Attack Surface Reduction (ASR) rules to prevent JavaScript scripts from
executing potentially malicious downloaded content .
M1042 Disable or Remove
Feature or ProgramTurn off or restrict access to unneeded scripting components.
M1038 Execution
PreventionDenylist scripting where appropriate.
M1021 Restrict Web-Based
ContentScript blocking extensions can help prevent the execution of JavaScript and HTA ﬁles that may
commonly be used during the exploitation process. For malicious code served up through ads,
adblockers can help prevent that code from executing in the ﬁrst place.[48]
[49]
[50]
[51]
[52]
[53]
[54][55][56]
[57]
[58]
[54]
[59]
[60]
[61][62]
[63]
[64]
[65][66]
[67]
[68]
[69]
[70]3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter: JavaScript, Sub-technique T1059.007 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/007/ 6/8Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionScripting execution is likely to perform actions with various effects on a system that may
generate events, depending on the types of monitoring used. Monitor processes and
command-line arguments for execution and subsequent behavior. Actions may be related to
network and system information Discovery, Collection, or other programmable post-
compromise behaviors and could be used as indicators of detection leading back to the
source. Monitor for execution of JXA through osascript and usage of OSAScript API that
may be related to other suspicious behavior occurring on the system.
DS0011 Module Module Load Monitor for the loading of modules associated with scripting languages (ex: JScript.dll).
DS0009 Process Process
CreationMonitor for events associated with scripting execution, such as process activity, usage of the
Windows Script Host (typically cscript.exe or wscript.exe), ﬁle activity involving scripts
DS0012 Script Script
ExecutionMonitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system would be considered
suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of
cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be
captured from the ﬁle system when possible to determine their actions and intent.3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter: JavaScript, Sub-technique T1059.007 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/007/ 7/8References
1. OpenJS Foundation. (n.d.). Node.js. Retrieved June 23, 2020.
2. Microsoft. (2018, May 31). Translating to JScript. Retrieved
June 23, 2020.
3. Microsoft. (2007, August 15). The World of JScript,
JavaScript, ECMAScript …. Retrieved June 23, 2020.
4. Microsoft. (2017, January 18). Windows Script Interfaces.
Retrieved June 23, 2020.
5. Apple. (2016, June 13). About Mac Scripting. Retrieved April
14, 2021.
. Pitt, L. (2020, August 6). Persistent JXA. Retrieved April 14,
2021.
7. Phil Stokes. (2019, December 5). macOS Red Team: Calling
Apple APIs Without Building Binaries. Retrieved July 17, 2020.
. Tony Lambert. (2021, February 18). Clipping Silver Sparrow’s
wings: Outing macOS malware before it takes ﬂight. Retrieved
April 20, 2021.
9. Dominic Chell. (2021, January 1). macOS Post-Exploitation
Shenanigans with VSCode Extensions. Retrieved April 20,
2021.
10. Jazi, H. (2021, June 1). Kimsuky APT continues to target
South Korean government using AppleSeed backdoor.
Retrieved June 10, 2021.
11. Dahan, A. (2017). Operation Cobalt Kitty. Retrieved December
27, 2018.
12. Adair, S. and Lancaster, T. (2020, November 6). OceanLotus:
Extending Cyber Espionage Operations Through Fake
Websites. Retrieved November 20, 2020.
13. Doaty, J., Garrett, P.. (2018, September 10). We’re Seeing a
Resurgence of the Demonic Astaroth WMIC Trojan. Retrieved
April 17, 2019.
14. GReAT. (2020, July 14). The Tetrade: Brazilian banking
malware goes global. Retrieved November 9, 2020.
15. Security Lab. (2020, June 5). Avaddon: From seeking aﬃliates
to in-the-wild in 2 days. Retrieved August 19, 2021.
1. Gahlot, A. (n.d.). Threat Hunting for Avaddon Ransomware.
Retrieved August 19, 2021.
17. Sushko, O. (2019, April 17). macOS Bundlore: Mac Virus
Bypassing macOS Security Features. Retrieved June 30, 2020.
1. DFIR Report. (2021, November 29). CONTInuing the Bazar
Ransomware Story. Retrieved September 29, 2022.
19. Rufus Brown, Van Ta, Douglas Bienstock, Geoff Ackerman,
John Wolfram. (2022, March 8). Does This Look Infected? A
Summary of APT41 Targeting U.S. State Governments.
Retrieved July 8, 2022.
20. Salem, E. (2020, November 17). CHAES: Novel Malware
Targeting Latin American E-Commerce. Retrieved June 30,
2021.
21. Svajcer, V. (2018, July 31). Multiple Cobalt Personality
Disorder. Retrieved September 5, 2018.
22. Positive Technologies. (2017, August 16). Cobalt Strikes Back:
An Evolving Multinational Threat to Finance. Retrieved
September 5, 2018.
23. Matveeva, V. (2017, August 15). Secrets of Cobalt. Retrieved
October 10, 2018.
24. Gorelik, M. (2018, October 08). Cobalt Group 2.0. Retrieved
November 5, 2018.
25. Unit 42. (2018, October 25). New Techniques to Uncover and
Attribute Financial actors Commodity Builders and
Infrastructure Revealed. Retrieved December 11, 2018.3. Platt, J. and Reeves, J.. (2019, March). FIN7 Revisited: Inside
Astra Panel and SQLRat Malware. Retrieved June 18, 2019.
37. Namestnikov, Y. and Aime, F. (2019, May 8). FIN7.5: the
infamous cybercrime rig “FIN7” continues its activities.
Retrieved October 11, 2019.
3. Malwarebytes Threat Intelligence Team. (2020, June 4). New
LNK attack tied to Higaisa APT discovered. Retrieved March 2,
2021.
39. Singh, S. Singh, A. (2020, June 11). The Return on the Higaisa
APT. Retrieved March 2, 2021.
40. PT ESC Threat Intelligence. (2020, June 4). COVID-19 and New
Year greetings: an investigation into the tools and methods
used by the Higaisa group. Retrieved March 2, 2021.
41. Symantec Threat Intelligence. (2020, June 25). WastedLocker:
Symantec Identiﬁes Wave of Attacks Against U.S.
Organizations. Retrieved May 20, 2021.
42. Hromcova, Z. and Cherpanov, A. (2020, June). INVISIMOLE:
THE HIDDEN PART OF THE STORY. Retrieved July 16, 2020.
43. Kamluk, V. & Gostev, A. (2016, February). Adwind - A Cross-
Platform RAT. Retrieved April 23, 2019.
44. Loui, E. and Reynolds, J. (2021, August 30). CARBON SPIDER
Embraces Big Game Hunting, Part 1. Retrieved September 20,
2021.
45. Kim, J. et al. (2019, October). KIMSUKY GROUP: TRACKING
THE KING OF THE SPEAR PHISHING. Retrieved November 2,
2020.
4. CISA, FBI, CNMF. (2020, October 27). https://us-
cert.cisa.gov/ncas/alerts/aa20-301a. Retrieved November 4,
2020.
47. Threat Intelligence Team. (2021, August 23). New variant of
Konni malware used in campaign targetting Russia. Retrieved
January 5, 2022.
4. Hawley, S. et al. (2023, February 2). Turla: A Galaxy of
Opportunity. Retrieved May 15, 2023.
49. Jazi, H. (2021, February). LazyScripter: From Empire to double
RAT. Retrieved November 24, 2021.
50. Symantec Security Response. (2018, July 25). Leafminer: New
Espionage Campaigns Targeting Middle Eastern Regions.
Retrieved August 28, 2018.
51. Erlich, C. (2020, April 3). The Avast Abuser: Metamorfo
Banking Malware Hides By Abusing Avast Executable.
Retrieved May 26, 2020.
52. GReAT. (2019, April 10). Gaza Cybergang Group1, operation
SneakyPastes. Retrieved May 13, 2020.
53. Faou, M. (2023, August 10). MoustachedBouncer: Espionage
against foreign diplomats in Belarus. Retrieved September 25,
2023.
54. ClearSky Cyber Security. (2018, November). MuddyWater
Operations in Lebanon and Oman: Using an Israeli
compromised domain for a two-stage campaign. Retrieved
November 29, 2018.
55. Singh, S. et al.. (2018, March 13). Iranian Threat Group
Updates Tactics, Techniques and Procedures in Spear
Phishing Campaign. Retrieved April 11, 2018.
5. FBI, CISA, CNMF, NCSC-UK. (2022, February 24). Iranian
Government-Sponsored Actors Conduct Cyber Operations
Against Global Government and Commercial Networks.
Retrieved September 27, 2022.
57. F-Secure Labs. (2016, July). NANHAISHU RATing the South
China Sea. Retrieved July 6, 2018.3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter: JavaScript, Sub-technique T1059.007 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/007/ 8/82. Giagone, R., Bermejo, L., and Yarochkin, F. (2017, November
20). Cobalt Strikes Again: Spam Runs Use Macros and CVE-
2017-8759 Exploit Against Russian Banks. Retrieved March 7,
2019.
27. Mavis, N. (2020, September 21). The Art and Science of
Detecting Cobalt Strike. Retrieved April 6, 2021.
2. Smith, S., Stafford, M. (2021, December 14). DarkWatchman:
A new evolution in ﬁleless techniques. Retrieved January 10,
2022.
29. TheWover. (2019, May 9). donut. Retrieved March 25, 2022.
30. Chen, J., et al. (2022). Delving Deep: An Analysis of Earth
Lusca’s Operations. Retrieved July 1, 2022.
31. Unit 42. (2022, February 25). Spear Phishing Attacks Target
Organizations in Ukraine, Payloads Include the Document
Stealer OutSteel and the Downloader SaintBot. Retrieved June
9, 2022.
32. MSTIC. (2021, May 28). Breaking down NOBELIUM’s latest
early-stage toolset. Retrieved August 4, 2021.
33. Porolli, M. (2020, July 9). More evil: A deep look at Evilnum
and its toolset. Retrieved January 22, 2021.
34. Chen, J. (2019, October 10). Magecart Card Skimmers Injected
Into Online Shops. Retrieved September 9, 2020.
35. Carr, N., et al. (2018, August 01). On the Hunt for FIN7:
Pursuing an Enigmatic and Evasive Global Criminal Operation.
Retrieved August 23, 2018.5. Gross, J. (2016, February 23). Operation Dust Storm. Retrieved
December 22, 2021.
59. Kuzmenko, A. et al. (2021, September 2). QakBot technical
analysis. Retrieved September 27, 2021.
0. Keneﬁck, I. et al. (2022, October 12). Black Basta Ransomware
Gang Inﬁltrates Networks via QAKBOT, Brute Ratel, and Cobalt
Strike. Retrieved February 6, 2023.
1. Hegel, T. (2021, January 13). A Global Perspective of the
SideWinder APT. Retrieved January 27, 2021.
2. Rewterz. (2020, June 22). Analysis on Sidewinder APT Group
– COVID-19. Retrieved January 29, 2021.
3. Skulkin, O.. (2019, January 20). Silence: Dissecting Malicious
CHM Files and Performing Forensic Analysis. Retrieved May
24, 2019.
4. CTU. (2018, September 27). Cybercriminals Increasingly
Trying to Ensnare the Big Financial Fish. Retrieved September
20, 2021.
5. Proofpoint Staff. (2017, September 27). Threat Actor Proﬁle:
TA505, From Dridex to GlobeImposter. Retrieved May 28,
2019.
. Proofpoint Staff. (2018, June 8). TA505 shifts with the times.
Retrieved May 28, 2019.
7. ESET, et al. (2018, January). Diplomats in Eastern Europe
bitten by a Turla mosquito. Retrieved July 3, 2018.
. Salem, E. et al. (2020, May 28). VALAK: MORE THAN MEETS
THE EYE . Retrieved June 19, 2020.
9. Xiao, C. (2018, September 17). Xbash Combines Botnet,
Ransomware, Coinmining in Worm that Targets Linux and
Windows. Retrieved November 14, 2018.
70. Microsoft. (2021, July 2). Use attack surface reduction rules to
prevent malware infection. Retrieved June 24, 2021.