3/22/24, 3:53 PM Firmware Corruption, Technique T1495 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1495/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:53 PM Firmware Corruption, Technique T1495 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1495/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Firmware Corruption3/22/24, 3:53 PM Firmware Corruption, Technique T1495 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1495/ 3/4Firmware Corruption
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0606 Bad Rabbit Bad Rabbit has used an executable that installs a modiﬁed bootloader to prevent normal boot-up.
S0266 TrickBot TrickBot module "Trickboot" can write or erase the UEFI/BIOS ﬁrmware of a compromised device.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1046 Boot Integrity Check the integrity of the existing BIOS and device ﬁrmware to determine if it is vulnerable to
modiﬁcation.
M1026 Privileged Account
ManagementPrevent adversary access to privileged accounts or access necessary to replace system
ﬁrmware.
M1051 Update Software Patch the BIOS and other ﬁrmware as necessary to prevent successful use of known
vulnerabilities.
Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0001 Firmware Firmware
ModiﬁcationMonitor for changes made to the ﬁrmware for unexpected modiﬁcations to settings and/or
data.  Log attempts to read/write to BIOS and compare against known patching behavior.Adversaries may overwrite or corrupt the ﬂash memory contents of system BIOS or other ﬁrmware in devices attached to a system in order to
render them inoperable or unable to boot, thus denying the availability to use the devices and/or the system. Firmware is software that is
loaded and executed from non-volatile memory on hardware devices in order to initialize and manage device functionality. These devices
may include the motherboard, hard drive, or video cards.
In general, adversaries may manipulate, overwrite, or corrupt ﬁrmware in order to deny the use of the system or devices. For example,
corruption of ﬁrmware responsible for loading the operating system for network devices may render the network devices inoperable.
Depending on the device, this attack may also result in Data Destruction.[1]
[2][3]
Version PermalinkID: T1495
Sub-techniques:  No sub-techniques

Tactic: Impact

Platforms: Linux, Network, Windows, macOS

Impact Type: Availability
Version: 1.2
Created: 12 April 2019
Last Modiﬁed: 31 August 2022
[4]
[5]
[6]3/22/24, 3:53 PM Firmware Corruption, Technique T1495 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1495/ 4/4References
1. Yamamura, M. (2002, April 25). W95.CIH. Retrieved April 12,
2019.
2. U.S. Department of Homeland Security. (2016, August 30).
The Increasing Threat to Network Infrastructure Devices and
Recommended Mitigations. Retrieved July 29, 2022.
3. CISA. (2022, April 28). Alert (AA22-057A) Update: Destructive
Malware Targeting Organizations in Ukraine. Retrieved July
29, 2022.4. Mamedov, O. Sinitsyn, F. Ivanov, A.. (2017, October 24). Bad
Rabbit ransomware. Retrieved January 28, 2021.
5. Eclypsium, Advanced Intelligence. (2020, December 1).
TRICKBOT NOW OFFERS ‘TRICKBOOT ’: PERSIST, BRICK,
PROFIT. Retrieved March 15, 2021.
. Upham, K. (2014, March). Going Deep into the BIOS with
MITRE Firmware Security Research. Retrieved January 5,
2016.