3/22/24, 3:52 PM Data Manipulation: Transmitted Data Manipulation, Sub-technique T1565.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1565/002/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:52 PM Data Manipulation: Transmitted Data Manipulation, Sub-technique T1565.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1565/002/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Data Manipulation>Transmitted Data Manipulation3/22/24, 3:52 PM Data Manipulation: Transmitted Data Manipulation, Sub-technique T1565.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1565/002/ 3/4Data Manipulation: Transmitted Data Manipulation
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0082 APT38 APT38 has used DYEPACK to manipulate SWIFT messages en route to a printer.
S0395 LightNeuron LightNeuron is capable of modifying email content, headers, and attachments during transit.
S0530 Melcoz Melcoz can monitor the clipboard for cryptocurrency addresses and change the intended address to one
controlled by the adversary.
S0455 Metamorfo Metamorfo has a function that can watch the contents of the system clipboard for valid bitcoin addresses,
which it then overwrites with the attacker's address.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1041 Encrypt Sensitive
InformationEncrypt all important data ﬂows to reduce the impact of tailored modiﬁcations on data in
transit.Adversaries may alter data en route to storage or other systems in order to manipulate external outcomes or hide activity, thus threatening
the integrity of the data. By manipulating transmitted data, adversaries may attempt to affect a business process, organizational
understanding, and decision making.
Manipulation may be possible over a network connection or between system processes where there is an opportunity deploy a tool that will
intercept and change information. The type of modiﬁcation and the impact it will have depends on the target transmission mechanism as
well as the goals and objectives of the adversary. For complex systems, an adversary would likely need special expertise and possibly
access to specialized software related to the system that would typically be gained through a prolonged information gathering campaign in
order to have the desired impact.Other sub-techniques of Data Manipulation (3)
[1][2]
Version PermalinkID: T1565.002
Sub-technique of:  T1565

Tactic: Impact

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS

Impact Type: Integrity
Version: 1.1
Created: 02 March 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 19 April 2022
[1]
[3]
[4]
[5][6]3/22/24, 3:52 PM Data Manipulation: Transmitted Data Manipulation, Sub-technique T1565.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1565/002/ 4/4Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0029 Network TraﬃcNetwork Traﬃc
ContentMonitor for networks that solicits and obtains the conﬁguration information of the
queried device.
Network Traﬃc
FlowMonitor for network traﬃc originating from unknown/unexpected hardware devices.
DS0009 Process OS API Execution Monitor for API calls associated with altering data. Remote access tools with built-in
features may interact directly with the Windows API to gather information.
References
1. FireEye. (2018, October 03). APT38: Un-usual Suspects.
Retrieved November 6, 2018.
2. Department of Justice. (2018, September 6). Criminal
Complaint - United States of America v. PARK JIN HYOK.
Retrieved March 29, 2019.
3. Faou, M. (2019, May). Turla LightNeuron: One email away
from remote code execution. Retrieved June 24, 2019.4. GReAT. (2020, July 14). The Tetrade: Brazilian banking
malware goes global. Retrieved November 9, 2020.
5. Zhang, X. (2020, February 4). Another Metamorfo Variant
Targeting Customers of Financial Institutions in More
Countries. Retrieved July 30, 2020.
. ESET Research. (2019, October 3). Casbaneiro: peculiarities of
this banking Trojan that affects Brazil and Mexico. Retrieved
September 23, 2021.