3/22/24, 3:46 PM Use Alternate Authentication Material: Application Access Token, Sub-technique T1550.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1550/001/ 1/5Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:46 PM Use Alternate Authentication Material: Application Access Token, Sub-technique T1550.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1550/001/ 2/5Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Use Alternate Authentication Material>Application Access Token3/22/24, 3:46 PM Use Alternate Authentication Material: Application Access Token, Sub-technique T1550.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1550/001/ 3/5Use Alternate Authentication Material: Application
Access Token
Adversaries may use stolen application access tokens to bypass the typical authentication process and access restricted accounts,
information, or services on remote systems. These tokens are typically stolen from users or services and used in lieu of login credentials.
Application access tokens are used to make authorized API requests on behalf of a user or service and are commonly used to access
resources in cloud, container-based applications, and software-as-a-service (SaaS).
OAuth is one commonly implemented framework that issues tokens to users for access to systems. These frameworks are used
collaboratively to verify the user and determine what actions the user is allowed to perform. Once identity is established, the token allows
actions to be authorized, without passing the actual credentials of the user. Therefore, compromise of the token can grant the adversary
access to resources of other sites through a malicious application.
For example, with a cloud-based email service, once an OAuth access token is granted to a malicious application, it can potentially gain
long-term access to features of the user account if a "refresh" token enabling background access is awarded. With an OAuth access token
an adversary can use the user-granted REST API to perform functions such as email searching and contact enumeration.
Compromised access tokens may be used as an initial step in compromising other services. For example, if a token grants access to a
victim’s primary email, the adversary may be able to extend access to all other services which the target subscribes by triggering forgotten
password routines. In AWS and GCP environments, adversaries can trigger a request for a short-lived access token with the privileges of
another user account. The adversary can then use this token to request data or perform actions the original account could not. If
permissions for this feature are misconﬁgured – for example, by allowing all users to request a token for a particular account - an adversary
may be able to gain initial access to a Cloud Account or escalate their privileges.
Direct API access through a token negates the effectiveness of a second authentication factor and may be immune to intuitive
countermeasures like changing passwords. For example, in AWS environments, an adversary who compromises a user’s AWS API credentials
may be able to use the sts:GetFederationToken API call to create a federated user session, which will have the same permissions as the
original user but may persist even if the original user credentials are deactivated. Additionally, access abuse over an API channel can be
diﬃcult to detect even from the service provider end, as the access can still align well with a legitimate workﬂow.Other sub-techniques of Use Alternate Authentication Material (4)
[1]
[2]
[3]
[4]
[5][6]
[7]
[8]
Version PermalinkID: T1550.001
Sub-technique of:  T1550

Tactics: Defense Evasion, Lateral Movement

Platforms: Azure AD, Containers, Google Workspace, IaaS, Oﬃce 365, SaaS

Defense Bypassed: System Access Controls
Contributors: Dylan Silva, AWS Security; Ian Davila, Tidal Cyber; Jack Burns, HubSpot; Jeff Sakowicz, Microsoft Identity Developer
Platform Services (IDPM Services); Mark Wee; Saisha Agrawal, Microsoft Threat Intelligent Center (MSTIC); Shailesh Tiwary (Indian
Army)
Version: 1.5
Created: 30 January 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 19 September 20233/22/24, 3:46 PM Use Alternate Authentication Material: Application Access Token, Sub-technique T1550.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1550/001/ 4/5Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0007 APT28 APT28 has used several malicious applications that abused OAuth access tokens to gain access to
target email accounts, including Gmail and Yahoo Mail.
S1023 CreepyDrive CreepyDrive can use legitimate OAuth refresh tokens to authenticate with OneDrive.
S0683 Peirates Peirates can use stolen service account tokens to perform its operations. It also enables adversaries to
switch between valid service accounts.
C0024 SolarWinds
CompromiseDuring the SolarWinds Compromise, APT29 used compromised service principals to make changes to
the Oﬃce 365 environment.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1047 Audit Administrators should audit all cloud and container accounts to ensure that they are necessary and that the
permissions granted to them are appropriate. Where possible, the ability to request temporary account
tokens on behalf of another accounts should be disabled. Additionally, administrators can leverage audit
tools to monitor actions that can be conducted as a result of OAuth 2.0 access. For instance, audit reports
enable admins to identify privilege escalation actions such as role creations or policy modiﬁcations, which
could be actions performed after initial access.
M1041 Encrypt
Sensitive
InformationFile encryption should be enforced across email communications containing sensitive information that may
be obtained through access to email services.
M1021 Restrict Web-
Based
ContentUpdate corporate policies to restrict what types of third-party applications may be added to any online
service or tool that is linked to the company's information, accounts or network (e.g., Google, Microsoft,
Dropbox, Basecamp, GitHub). However, rather than providing high-level guidance on this, be extremely
speciﬁc—include a list of per-approved applications and deny all others not on the list. Administrators may
also block end-user consent through administrative portals, such as the Azure Portal, disabling users from
authorizing third-party apps through OAuth and forcing administrative consent.
Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0006 Web CredentialWeb Credential
UsageMonitor the use of application access tokens to interact with resources or services that
do not ﬁt the organization baseline. For example, an application that is not meant to read
emails accessing users’ mail boxes and potentially exﬁltrating sensitive data, or a token
associated with a cloud service account being used to make API calls from an IP address
outside of the cloud environment.[9]
[10]
[11]
[12]
[13]
[14]3/22/24, 3:46 PM Use Alternate Authentication Material: Application Access Token, Sub-technique T1550.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1550/001/ 5/5References
1. Auth0. (n.d.). Why You Should Always Use Access Tokens to
Secure APIs. Retrieved September 12, 2019.
2. okta. (n.d.). What Happens If Your JWT Is Stolen?. Retrieved
September 12, 2019.
3. Cai, S., Flores, J., de Guzman, C., et. al.. (2019, August 27).
Microsoft identity platform access tokens. Retrieved October
4, 2019.
4. Stalmans, E.. (2017, August 2). Phishing with OAuth and
o365/Azure. Retrieved October 4, 2019.
5. Google Cloud. (2022, March 31). Creating short-lived service
account credentials. Retrieved April 1, 2022.
. AWS. (n.d.). Requesting temporary security credentials.
Retrieved April 1, 2022.
7. Spencer Gietzen. (2018, August 8). Assume the Worst:
Enumerating AWS Roles through ‘AssumeRole’. Retrieved April
1, 2022.. Vaishnav Murthy and Joel Eng. (2023, January 30). How
Adversaries Can Persist with AWS User Federation. Retrieved
March 10, 2023.
9. Hacquebord, F.. (2017, April 25). Pawn Storm Abuses Open
Authentication in Advanced Social Engineering Attacks.
Retrieved October 4, 2019.
10. Microsoft. (2022, June 2). Exposing POLONIUM activity and
infrastructure targeting Israeli organizations. Retrieved July 1,
2022.
11. InGuardians. (2022, January 5). Peirates GitHub. Retrieved
February 8, 2022.
12. CrowdStrike. (2022, January 27). Early Bird Catches the
Wormhole: Observations from the StellarParticle Campaign.
Retrieved February 7, 2022.
13. Baldwin, M., Flores, J., Kess, B.. (2018, June 17). Five steps to
securing your identity infrastructure. Retrieved October 4,
2019.
14. Dror Alon. (2022, December 8). Compromised Cloud Compute
Credentials: Case Studies From the Wild. Retrieved March 9,
2023.