3/22/24, 3:52 PM Data Transfer Size Limits, Technique T1030 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1030/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:52 PM Data Transfer Size Limits, Technique T1030 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1030/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Data Transfer Size Limits3/22/24, 3:52 PM Data Transfer Size Limits, Technique T1030 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1030/ 3/4Data Transfer Size Limits
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0622 AppleSeed AppleSeed has divided ﬁles if the size is 0x1000000 bytes or more.
G0007 APT28 APT28 has split archived exﬁltration ﬁles into chunks smaller than 1MB.
C0015 C0015 During C0015, the threat actors limited Rclone's bandwidth setting during exﬁltration.
C0026 C0026 During C0026, the threat actors split encrypted archives containing stolen ﬁles and information into 3MB
parts prior to exﬁltration.
S0030 Carbanak Carbanak exﬁltrates data in compressed chunks if a message is larger than 4096 bytes .
S0154 Cobalt Strike Cobalt Strike will break large data sets into smaller chunks for exﬁltration.
S0170 Helminth Helminth splits data into chunks up to 23 bytes and sends the data in DNS queries to its C2 server.
S0487 Kessel Kessel can split the data to be exilftrated into chunks that will ﬁt in subdomains of DNS queries.
S1020 Kevin Kevin can exﬁltrate data to the C2 server in 27-character chunks.
G1014 LuminousMoth LuminousMoth has split archived ﬁles into multiple parts to bypass a 5MB limit.
S0699 Mythic Mythic supports custom chunk sizes used to upload/download ﬁles.
S0644 ObliqueRAT ObliqueRAT can break large ﬁles of interest into smaller chunks to prepare them for exﬁltration.
S0264 OopsIE OopsIE exﬁltrates command output and collected ﬁles to its C2 server in 1500-byte blocks.
S0150 POSHSPY POSHSPY uploads data in 2048-byte chunks.
S1040 Rclone The Rclone "chunker" overlay supports splitting large ﬁles in smaller chunks during upload to circumvent
size limits.
S0495 RDAT RDAT can upload a ﬁle via HTTP POST response to the C2 split into 102,400-byte portions. RDAT can
also download data from the C2 which is split into 81,920-byte portions.
G0027 Threat Group-
3390Threat Group-3390 actors have split RAR ﬁles for exﬁltration into parts.An adversary may exﬁltrate data in ﬁxed size chunks instead of whole ﬁles or limit packet sizes below certain thresholds. This approach
may be used to avoid triggering network data transfer threshold alerts.
Version PermalinkID: T1030
Sub-techniques:  No sub-techniques

Tactic: Exﬁltration

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS
Version: 1.0
Created: 31 May 2017
Last Modiﬁed: 14 July 2020
[1]
[2]
[3]
[4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]
[12]
[13]
[14]
[15][3]
[16]
[17]3/22/24, 3:52 PM Data Transfer Size Limits, Technique T1030 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1030/ 4/4Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1031 Network Intrusion
PreventionNetwork intrusion detection and prevention systems that use network signatures to identify traﬃc for
speciﬁc adversary command and control infrastructure and malware can be used to mitigate activity at
the network level.
Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0029 Network TraﬃcNetwork
Connection
CreationMonitor for newly constructed network connections that are sent or received by untrusted
hosts or uncommon data ﬂows (e.g. unusual network communications or suspicious
communications sending ﬁxed size data packets at regular intervals as well as unusually
long connection patterns). Consider analyzing packet contents to detect application layer
protocols, leveraging SSL/TLS inspection for encrypted traﬃc, that do not follow the
expected protocol standards and traﬃc ﬂows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong
to established ﬂows, protocol port mismatch, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider
correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes
execution and command line arguments (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of ﬁles that do
not normally initiate network connections or unusual connections initiated
Network Traﬃc
FlowMonitor and analyze traﬃc ﬂows that do not follow the expected protocol standards and
traﬃc ﬂows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established ﬂows, or
gratuitous or anomalous traﬃc patterns). Consider correlation with process monitoring
and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line
arguments associated to traﬃc patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of ﬁles that do
not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).
References
1. KISA. (n.d.). Phishing Target Reconnaissance and Attack
Resource Analysis Operation Muzabi. Retrieved March 7,
2022.
2. NSA, CISA, FBI, NCSC. (2021, July). Russian GRU Conducting
Global Brute Force Campaign to Compromise Enterprise and
Cloud Environments. Retrieved July 26, 2021.
3. DFIR Report. (2021, November 29). CONTInuing the Bazar
Ransomware Story. Retrieved September 29, 2022.
4. Hawley, S. et al. (2023, February 2). Turla: A Galaxy of
Opportunity. Retrieved May 15, 2023.
5. Bennett, J., Vengerik, B. (2017, June 12). Behind the
CARBANAK Backdoor. Retrieved June 11, 2018.
. Strategic Cyber LLC. (2017, March 14). Cobalt Strike Manual.
Retrieved May 24, 2017.
7. Falcone, R. and Lee, B.. (2016, May 26). The OilRig Campaign:
Attacks on Saudi Arabian Organizations Deliver Helminth
Backdoor. Retrieved May 3, 2017.
. Dumont, R., M.Léveillé, M., Porcher, H. (2018, December 1).
THE DARK SIDE OF THE FORSSHE A landscape of OpenSSH
backdoors. Retrieved July 16, 2020.
9. Kayal, A. et al. (2021, October). LYCEUM REBORN:
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE IN THE MIDDLE EAST. Retrieved
June 14, 2022.10. Botezatu, B and etl. (2021, July 21). LuminousMoth - PlugX,
File Exﬁltration and Persistence Revisited. Retrieved October
20, 2022.
11. Thomas, C. (n.d.). Mythc Documentation. Retrieved March 25,
2022.
12. Malhotra, A. (2021, March 2). ObliqueRAT returns with new
campaign using hijacked websites. Retrieved September 2,
2021.
13. Lee, B., Falcone, R. (2018, February 23). OopsIE! OilRig Uses
ThreeDollars to Deliver New Trojan. Retrieved July 16, 2018.
14. Dunwoody, M.. (2017, April 3). Dissecting One of APT29’s
Fileless WMI and PowerShell Backdoors (POSHSPY).
Retrieved April 5, 2017.
15. Nick Craig-Wood. (n.d.). Rclone syncs your ﬁles to cloud
storage. Retrieved August 30, 2022.
1. Falcone, R. (2020, July 22). OilRig Targets Middle Eastern
Telecommunications Organization and Adds Novel C2
Channel with Steganography to Its Inventory. Retrieved July
28, 2020.
17. Dell SecureWorks Counter Threat Unit Threat Intelligence.
(2015, August 5). Threat Group-3390 Targets Organizations
for Cyberespionage. Retrieved August 18, 2018.