3/22/24, 3:48 PM Account Discovery: Local Account, Sub-technique T1087.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1087/001/ 1/8Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:48 PM Account Discovery: Local Account, Sub-technique T1087.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1087/001/ 2/8Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Account Discovery>Local Account3/22/24, 3:48 PM Account Discovery: Local Account, Sub-technique T1087.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1087/001/ 3/8Account Discovery: Local Account
Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of local system accounts. This information can help adversaries determine which local accounts
exist on a system to aid in follow-on behavior.
Commands such as net user and net localgroup of the Net utility and id and groups on macOS and Linux can list local users and
groups. On Linux, local users can also be enumerated through the use of the /etc/passwd ﬁle. On macOS the dscl . list /Users
command can be used to enumerate local accounts.Other sub-techniques of Account Discovery (4)
Version PermalinkID: T1087.001
Sub-technique of:  T1087

Tactic: Discovery

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS
Contributors: Daniel Stepanic, Elastic; Miriam Wiesner, @miriamxyra, Microsoft Security
Version: 1.4
Created: 21 February 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 13 April 20233/22/24, 3:48 PM Account Discovery: Local Account, Sub-technique T1087.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1087/001/ 4/8Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0018 admin@338 admin@338 actors used the following commands following exploitation of a machine with LOWBALL
malware to enumerate user accounts: net user >> %temp%\download net user /domain >>
%temp%\download
S0331 Agent Tesla Agent Tesla can collect account information from the victim’s machine.
G0006 APT1 APT1 used the commands net localgroup ,net user , and net group to ﬁnd accounts on the system.
G0022 APT3 APT3 has used a tool that can obtain info about local and global group users, power users, and
administrators.
G0050 APT32 APT32 enumerated administrative users using the commands net localgroup administrators .
S0239 Bankshot Bankshot gathers domain and account names/information through process monitoring.
S0534 Bazar Bazar can identify administrator accounts on an infected host.
S0570 BitPaymer BitPaymer can enumerate the sessions for each user logged onto the infected host.
S0521 BloodHound BloodHound can identify users with local administrator rights.
G0114 Chimera Chimera has used net user for account discovery.
S0244 Comnie Comnie uses the net user command.
S0038 Duqu The discovery modules used with Duqu can collect information on accounts and permissions.
S0081 Elise Elise executes net user after initial communication is made to the remote server.
S0363 Empire Empire can acquire local and domain user account information.
S0091 Epic Epic gathers a list of all user accounts, privilege classes, and time of last logon.
G0117 Fox Kitten Fox Kitten has accessed ntuser.dat and UserClass.dat on compromised hosts.
S0049 GeminiDuke GeminiDuke collects information on local user accounts from the victim.
S0537 HyperStack HyperStack can enumerate all account names on a remote share.
S0260 InvisiMole InvisiMole has a command to list account information on the victim’s machine.
S0265 Kazuar Kazuar gathers information on local groups and members on the victim’s machine.
G0004 Ke3chang Ke3chang performs account discovery using commands such as net localgroup administrators
and net group "REDACTED" /domain on speciﬁc permissions groups.
S0236 Kwampirs Kwampirs collects a list of accounts with the command net users .
S1015 Milan Milan has run C:\Windows\system32\cmd.exe /c cmd /c dir c:\users\ /s 2>&1 to discover local
accounts.
S0084 Mis-Type Mis-Type may create a ﬁle containing the results of the command cmd.exe /c net user {Username} .
G1009 Moses Staff Moses Staff has collected the administrator username from a compromised host.[1]
[2]
[3]
[4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]
[12]
[13]
[14]
[15]
[16]
[17]
[18]
[19]
[20]
[21]
[22]
[23]
[24]
[25]3/22/24, 3:48 PM Account Discovery: Local Account, Sub-technique T1087.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1087/001/ 5/8ID Name Description
S0233 MURKYTOP MURKYTOP has the capability to retrieve information about users on remote hosts.
S0039 Net Commands under net user can be used in Net to gather information about and manipulate user
accounts.
G0049 OilRig OilRig has run net user , net user /domain , net group "domain admins" /domain , and net group
"Exchange Trusted Subsystem" /domain to get account listings on a victim.
C0012 Operation
CuckooBeesDuring Operation CuckooBees, the threat actors used the net user command to gather account
information.
S0165 OSInfo OSInfo enumerates local and domain users
S0598 P.A.S. Webshell P.A.S. Webshell can display the /etc/passwd ﬁle on a compromised host.
S0453 Pony Pony has used the NetUserEnum function to enumerate local accounts.
G0033 Poseidon Group Poseidon Group searches for administrator accounts on both the local victim machine and the network.
S0378 PoshC2 PoshC2 can enumerate local and domain user account information.
S0194 PowerSploit PowerSploit's Get-ProcessTokenGroup Privesc-PowerUp module can enumerate all SIDs associated
with its current token.
S0223 POWERSTATS POWERSTATS can retrieve usernames from compromised hosts.
S0196 PUNCHBUGGY PUNCHBUGGY can gather user names.
S0192 Pupy Pupy uses PowerView and Pywerview to perform discovery commands such as net user, net group, net
local group, etc.
S0241 RATANKBA RATANKBA uses the net user command.
S0125 Remsec Remsec can obtain a list of users.
S0085 S-Type S-Type has run the command net user on a victim.
S0063 SHOTPUT SHOTPUT has a command to retrieve information about connected users.
S0649 SMOKEDHAM SMOKEDHAM has used net.exe user and net.exe users to enumerate local accounts on a
compromised host.
S0516 SoreFang SoreFang can collect usernames from the local system via net.exe user .
S0603 Stuxnet Stuxnet enumerates user accounts of the local host.
G0027 Threat Group-
3390Threat Group-3390 has used net user to conduct internal discovery of systems.
S0266 TrickBot TrickBot collects the users of the system.
G0010 Turla Turla has used net user to enumerate local accounts on the system.
S0452 USBferry USBferry can use net user to gather information about local accounts.
S0476 Valak Valak has the ability to enumerate local admin accounts.[26]
[27]
[28]
[29]
[4]
[30]
[31]
[32]
[33]
[34][35]
[36]
[37]
[38]
[39]
[40]
[24]
[41]
[42]
[43]
[44]
[45]
[46][47]
[48][49]
[50]
[51]3/22/24, 3:48 PM Account Discovery: Local Account, Sub-technique T1087.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1087/001/ 6/8Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1028 Operating
System
ConﬁgurationPrevent administrator accounts from being enumerated when an application is elevating through UAC
since it can lead to the disclosure of account names. The Registry key is located at HKLM\
SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\CredUI\EnumerateAdministrators . It can
be disabled through GPO: Computer Conﬁguration > [Policies] > Administrative Templates > Windows
Components > Credential User Interface: Enumerate administrator accounts on elevation.
Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor for execution of commands and arguments associated with enumeration or
information gathering of local accounts and groups such as net user , net account , net
localgroup , Get-LocalUser , and dscl .
System and network discovery techniques normally occur throughout an operation as an
adversary learns the environment, and also to an extent in normal network operations.
Therefore discovery data and events should not be viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain
of behavior that could lead to other activities, such as Lateral Movement, based on the
information obtained.
DS0022 File File Access Monitor access to ﬁle resources that contain local accounts and groups information such as
/etc/passwd , /Users directories, and the Windows SAM database.
If access requires high privileges, look for non-admin objects (such as users or processes)
attempting to access restricted ﬁle resources.
DS0036 Group Group
EnumerationMonitor for logging that may suggest a list of available groups and/or their associated
settings has been extracted, ex. Windows EID 4798 and 4799.
DS0009 Process OS API
ExecutionMonitor for API calls (such as NetUserEnum() ) that may attempt to gather local accounts
information such as type of user, privileges and groups.
Process
CreationMonitor for processes that can be used to enumerate user accounts and groups such as
net.exe and net1.exe , especially when executed in quick succession. Information may
also be acquired through Windows system management tools such as Windows Management
Instrumentation and PowerShell.
Note: Event IDs are for Sysmon (Event ID 10 - process access) and Windows Security Log
(Event ID 4688 - a new process has been created). - For Linux, auditing frameworks such as
the Linux Auditing System (auditd) can be used to alert on the enumeration/reading of ﬁles
that store local users, including /etc/passwd . - For MacOS, utilities that work in concert with
Apple’s Endpoint Security Framework such as Process Monitor can be used to track usage of
commands such as id and groups .
Analytic 1 - Net Discovery Commands
processes = filter processes where ((event\_id="10" OR event\_id="4688") AND exe
== "net.exe" OR exe == "net1.exe")[52]
[53]3/22/24, 3:48 PM Account Discovery: Local Account, Sub-technique T1087.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1087/001/ 7/8References
1. FireEye Threat Intelligence. (2015, December 1). China-based
Cyber Threat Group Uses Dropbox for Malware
Communications and Targets Hong Kong Media Outlets.
Retrieved December 4, 2015.
2. The DigiTrust Group. (2017, January 12). The Rise of Agent
Tesla. Retrieved November 5, 2018.
3. Mandiant. (n.d.). APT1 Exposing One of China’s Cyber
Espionage Units. Retrieved July 18, 2016.
4. Symantec Security Response. (2016, September 6). Buckeye
cyberespionage group shifts gaze from US to Hong Kong.
Retrieved September 26, 2016.
5. Dahan, A. (2017). Operation Cobalt Kitty. Retrieved December
27, 2018.
. Sherstobitoff, R. (2018, March 08). Hidden Cobra Targets
Turkish Financial Sector With New Bankshot Implant.
Retrieved May 18, 2018.
7. Pantazopoulos, N. (2020, June 2). In-depth analysis of the
new Team9 malware family. Retrieved December 1, 2020.
. Frankoff, S., Hartley, B. (2018, November 14). Big Game
Hunting: The Evolution of INDRIK SPIDER From Dridex Wire
Fraud to BitPaymer Targeted Ransomware. Retrieved January
6, 2021.
9. Red Team Labs. (2018, April 24). Hidden Administrative
Accounts: BloodHound to the Rescue. Retrieved October 28,
2020.
10. Jansen, W . (2021, January 12). Abusing cloud services to ﬂy
under the radar. Retrieved January 19, 2021.
11. Grunzweig, J. (2018, January 31). Comnie Continues to Target
Organizations in East Asia. Retrieved June 7, 2018.
12. Symantec Security Response. (2011, November). W32.Duqu:
The precursor to the next Stuxnet. Retrieved September 17,
2015.
13. Falcone, R., et al.. (2015, June 16). Operation Lotus Blossom.
Retrieved February 15, 2016.
14. Schroeder, W., Warner, J., Nelson, M. (n.d.). Github
PowerShellEmpire. Retrieved April 28, 2016.
15. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis Team. (2014,
August 06). The Epic Turla Operation: Solving some of the
mysteries of Snake/Uroboros. Retrieved November 7, 2018.
1. CISA. (2020, September 15). Iran-Based Threat Actor Exploits
VPN Vulnerabilities. Retrieved December 21, 2020.
17. F-Secure Labs. (2015, September 17). The Dukes: 7 years of
Russian cyberespionage. Retrieved December 10, 2015.
1. Accenture. (2020, October). Turla uses HyperStack, Carbon,
and Kazuar to compromise government entity. Retrieved
December 2, 2020.
19. Hromcová, Z. (2018, June 07). InvisiMole: Surprisingly
equipped spyware, undercover since 2013. Retrieved July 10,
2018.
20. Levene, B, et al. (2017, May 03). Kazuar: Multiplatform
Espionage Backdoor with API Access. Retrieved July 17, 2018.
21. Villeneuve, N., Bennett, J. T., Moran, N., Haq, T., Scott, M., &
Geers, K. (2014). OPERATION “KE3CHANG”: Targeted Attacks
Against Ministries of Foreign Affairs. Retrieved November 12,
2014.
22. Symantec Security Response Attack Investigation Team.
(2018, April 23). New Orangeworm attack group targets the
healthcare sector in the U.S., Europe, and Asia. Retrieved May
8, 2018.2. Falcone, R. and Lee, B.. (2016, May 26). The OilRig Campaign:
Attacks on Saudi Arabian Organizations Deliver Helminth
Backdoor. Retrieved May 3, 2017.
29. Cybereason Nocturnus. (2022, May 4). Operation CuckooBees:
Deep-Dive into Stealthy Winnti Techniques. Retrieved
September 22, 2022.
30. ANSSI. (2021, January 27). SANDWORM INTRUSION SET
CAMPAIGN TARGETING CENTREON SYSTEMS. Retrieved
March 30, 2021.
31. hasherezade. (2016, April 11). No money, but Pony! From a
mail to a trojan horse. Retrieved May 21, 2020.
32. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research and Analysis Team. (2016,
February 9). Poseidon Group: a Targeted Attack Boutique
specializing in global cyber-espionage. Retrieved March 16,
2016.
33. Nettitude. (2018, July 23). Python Server for PoshC2.
Retrieved April 23, 2019.
34. PowerShellMaﬁa. (2012, May 26). PowerSploit - A PowerShell
Post-Exploitation Framework. Retrieved February 6, 2018.
35. PowerSploit. (n.d.). PowerSploit. Retrieved February 6, 2018.
3. Singh, S. et al.. (2018, March 13). Iranian Threat Group
Updates Tactics, Techniques and Procedures in Spear
Phishing Campaign. Retrieved April 11, 2018.
37. Gorelik, M.. (2019, June 10). SECURITY ALERT: FIN8 IS BACK
IN BUSINESS, TARGETING THE HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY.
Retrieved June 13, 2019.
3. Nicolas Verdier. (n.d.). Retrieved January 29, 2018.
39. Trend Micro. (2017, February 27). RATANKBA: Delving into
Large-scale Watering Holes against Enterprises. Retrieved May
22, 2018.
40. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis Team. (2016,
August 9). The ProjectSauron APT. Technical Analysis.
Retrieved August 17, 2016.
41. Falcone, R. and Wartell, R.. (2015, July 27). Observations on
CVE-2015-3113, Prior Zero-Days and the Pirpi Payload.
Retrieved January 22, 2016.
42. FireEye. (2021, June 16). Smoking Out a DARKSIDE Aﬃliate’s
Supply Chain Software Compromise. Retrieved September 22,
2021.
43. CISA. (2020, July 16). MAR-10296782-1.v1 – SOREFANG.
Retrieved September 29, 2020.
44. Nicolas Falliere, Liam O Murchu, Eric Chien 2011, February
W32.Stuxnet Dossier (Version 1.4) Retrieved. 2017/09/22
45. Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2017, June 27). BRONZE
UNION Cyberespionage Persists Despite Disclosures.
Retrieved July 13, 2017.
4. Salinas, M., Holguin, J. (2017, June). Evolution of Trickbot.
Retrieved July 31, 2018.
47. Anthony, N., Pascual, C.. (2018, November 1). Trickbot Shows
Off New Trick: Password Grabber Module. Retrieved
November 16, 2018.
4. Faou, M. (2020, May). From Agent.btz to ComRAT v4: A ten-
year journey. Retrieved June 15, 2020.
49. Faou, M. (2020, December 2). Turla Crutch: Keeping the “back
door” open. Retrieved December 4, 2020.
50. Chen, J.. (2020, May 12). Tropic Trooper’s Back: USBferry
Attack Targets Air gapped Environments. Retrieved May 20,
2020.
51. Salem, E. et al. (2020, May 28). VALAK: MORE THAN MEETS
THE EYE . Retrieved June 19, 2020.3/22/24, 3:48 PM Account Discovery: Local Account, Sub-technique T1087.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1087/001/ 8/823. ClearSky Cyber Security . (2021, August). New Iranian
Espionage Campaign By “Siamesekitten” - Lyceum. Retrieved
June 6, 2022.
24. Gross, J. (2016, February 23). Operation Dust Storm. Retrieved
December 22, 2021.
25. Checkpoint Research. (2021, November 15). Uncovering
MosesStaff techniques: Ideology over Money. Retrieved
August 11, 2022.
2. FireEye. (2018, March 16). Suspected Chinese Cyber
Espionage Group (TEMP.Periscope) Targeting U.S. Engineering
and Maritime Industries. Retrieved April 11, 2018.
27. Savill, J. (1999, March 4). Net.exe reference. Retrieved
September 22, 2015.52. UCF. (n.d.). The system must require username and password
to elevate a running application.. Retrieved December 18,
2017.
53. Stepanic, D.. (2020, January 13). Embracing offensive tooling:
Building detections against Koadic using EQL. Retrieved
November 30, 2020.