3/22/24, 3:51 PM Application Layer Protocol: Mail Protocols, Sub-technique T1071.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1071/003/ 1/5Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:51 PM Application Layer Protocol: Mail Protocols, Sub-technique T1071.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1071/003/ 2/5Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Application Layer Protocol>Mail Protocols3/22/24, 3:51 PM Application Layer Protocol: Mail Protocols, Sub-technique T1071.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1071/003/ 3/5Application Layer Protocol: Mail Protocols
Adversaries may communicate using application layer protocols associated with electronic mail delivery to avoid detection/network ﬁltering
by blending in with existing traﬃc. Commands to the remote system, and often the results of those commands, will be embedded within the
protocol traﬃc between the client and server.
Protocols such as SMTP/S, POP3/S, and IMAP that carry electronic mail may be very common in environments. Packets produced from
these protocols may have many ﬁelds and headers in which data can be concealed. Data could also be concealed within the email
messages themselves. An adversary may abuse these protocols to communicate with systems under their control within a victim network
while also mimicking normal, expected traﬃc.Other sub-techniques of Application Layer Protocol (4)
Version PermalinkID: T1071.003
Sub-technique of:  T1071

Tactic: Command and Control

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS
Version: 1.0
Created: 15 March 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 21 October 20203/22/24, 3:51 PM Application Layer Protocol: Mail Protocols, Sub-technique T1071.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1071/003/ 4/5Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0331 Agent Tesla Agent Tesla has used SMTP for C2 communications.
G0007 APT28 APT28 has used IMAP, POP3, and SMTP for a communication channel in various implants, including using
self-registered Google Mail accounts and later compromised email servers of its victims.
G0050 APT32 APT32 has used email for C2 via an Oﬃce macro.
S0337 BadPatch BadPatch uses SMTP for C2.
S0351 Cannon Cannon uses SMTP/S and POP3/S for C2 communications by sending and receiving emails.
S0023 CHOPSTICK Various implementations of CHOPSTICK communicate with C2 over SMTP and POP3.
S0126 ComRAT ComRAT can use email attachments for command and control.
S0137 CORESHELL CORESHELL can communicate over SMTP and POP3 for C2.
S0477 Goopy Goopy has the ability to use a Microsoft Outlook backdoor macro to communicate with its C2.
S0201 JPIN JPIN can send email over SMTP.
G0094 Kimsuky Kimsuky has used e-mail to send exﬁltrated data to C2 servers.
S0395 LightNeuron LightNeuron uses SMTP for C2.
S0247 NavRAT NavRAT uses the email platform, Naver, for C2 communications, leveraging SMTP.
S1090 NightClub NightClub can use emails for C2 communications.
S0138 OLDBAIT OLDBAIT can use SMTP for C2.
S0495 RDAT RDAT can use email attachments for C2 communications.
S0125 Remsec Remsec is capable of using SMTP for C2.
G0083 SilverTerrier SilverTerrier uses SMTP for C2 communications.
S1042 SUGARDUMP A SUGARDUMP variant used SMTP for C2.
G0010 Turla Turla has used multiple backdoors which communicate with a C2 server via email attachments.
S0022 Uroburos Uroburos can use custom communications protocols that ride over SMTP.
S0251 Zebrocy Zebrocy uses SMTP and POP3 for C2.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1031 Network Intrusion
PreventionNetwork intrusion detection and prevention systems that use network signatures to identify traﬃc for
speciﬁc adversary malware can be used to mitigate activity at the network level.[1][2][3]
[4][5]
[6][7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]
[4][12]
[7]
[13]
[14]
[15]
[16]
[17]
[4]
[18]
[19][20][21]
[22]
[23]
[24]
[25]
[26][9][27][28][29][30]3/22/24, 3:51 PM Application Layer Protocol: Mail Protocols, Sub-technique T1071.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1071/003/ 5/5Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0029 Network TraﬃcNetwork Traﬃc
ContentMonitor and analyze traﬃc patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s),
leveraging SSL/TLS inspection for encrypted traﬃc, that do not follow the expected
protocol standards and traﬃc ﬂows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to
established ﬂows, gratuitous or anomalous traﬃc patterns, anomalous syntax, or
structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect
anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traﬃc
patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of ﬁles that do not normally initiate connections
for respective protocol(s)).
Network Traﬃc
FlowMonitor and analyze traﬃc ﬂows that do not follow the expected protocol standards and
traﬃc ﬂows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to established ﬂows, or
gratuitous or anomalous traﬃc patterns). Consider correlation with process monitoring
and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line
arguments associated to traﬃc patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of ﬁles that do
not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).
References
1. The DigiTrust Group. (2017, January 12). The Rise of Agent
Tesla. Retrieved November 5, 2018.
2. Zhang, X. (2017, June 28). In-Depth Analysis of A New Variant
of .NET Malware AgentTesla. Retrieved November 5, 2018.
3. Arsene, L. (2020, April 21). Oil & Gas Spearphishing
Campaigns Drop Agent Tesla Spyware in Advance of Historic
OPEC+ Deal. Retrieved May 19, 2020.
4. FireEye. (2015). APT28: A WINDOW INTO RUSSIA’S CYBER
ESPIONAGE OPERATIONS?. Retrieved August 19, 2015.
5. NSA, CISA, FBI, NCSC. (2021, July). Russian GRU Conducting
Global Brute Force Campaign to Compromise Enterprise and
Cloud Environments. Retrieved July 26, 2021.
. Dahan, A. (2017, May 24). OPERATION COBALT KITTY: A
LARGE-SCALE APT IN ASIA CARRIED OUT BY THE
OCEANLOTUS GROUP. Retrieved November 5, 2018.
7. Dahan, A. (2017). Operation Cobalt Kitty. Retrieved December
27, 2018.
. Bar, T., Conant, S. (2017, October 20). BadPatch. Retrieved
November 13, 2018.
9. Falcone, R., Lee, B. (2018, November 20). Sofacy Continues
Global Attacks and Wheels Out New ‘Cannon’ Trojan. Retrieved
November 26, 2018.
10. ESET. (2016, October). En Route with Sednit - Part 2:
Observing the Comings and Goings. Retrieved November 21,
2016.
11. Faou, M. (2020, May). From Agent.btz to ComRAT v4: A ten-
year journey. Retrieved June 15, 2020.
12. Anthe, C. et al. (2015, October 19). Microsoft Security
Intelligence Report Volume 19. Retrieved December 23, 2015.
13. Windows Defender Advanced Threat Hunting Team. (2016,
April 29). PLATINUM: Targeted attacks in South and
Southeast Asia. Retrieved February 15, 2018.
14. CISA, FBI, CNMF. (2020, October 27). https://us-
cert.cisa.gov/ncas/alerts/aa20-301a. Retrieved November 4,
2020.
15. Faou, M. (2019, May). Turla LightNeuron: One email away
from remote code execution. Retrieved June 24, 2019.1. Mercer, W., Rascagneres, P. (2018, May 31). NavRAT Uses US-
North Korea Summit As Decoy For Attacks In South Korea.
Retrieved June 11, 2018.
17. Faou, M. (2023, August 10). MoustachedBouncer: Espionage
against foreign diplomats in Belarus. Retrieved September 25,
2023.
1. Falcone, R. (2020, July 22). OilRig Targets Middle Eastern
Telecommunications Organization and Adds Novel C2
Channel with Steganography to Its Inventory. Retrieved July
28, 2020.
19. Symantec Security Response. (2016, August 8).
Backdoor.Remsec indicators of compromise. Retrieved August
17, 2016.
20. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis Team. (2016,
August 9). The ProjectSauron APT. Retrieved August 17, 2016.
21. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis Team. (2016,
August 9). The ProjectSauron APT. Technical Analysis.
Retrieved August 17, 2016.
22. Unit42. (2016). SILVERTERRIER: THE RISE OF NIGERIAN
BUSINESS EMAIL COMPROMISE. Retrieved November 13,
2018.
23. Mandiant Israel Research Team. (2022, August 17). Suspected
Iranian Actor Targeting Israeli Shipping, Healthcare,
Government and Energy Sectors. Retrieved September 21,
2022.
24. Crowdstrike. (2020, March 2). 2020 Global Threat Report.
Retrieved December 11, 2020.
25. FBI et al. (2023, May 9). Hunting Russian Intelligence “Snake”
Malware. Retrieved June 8, 2023.
2. Lee, B., Falcone, R. (2018, June 06). Sofacy Group’s Parallel
Attacks. Retrieved June 18, 2018.
27. ESET. (2018, November 20). Sednit: What’s going on with
Zebrocy?. Retrieved February 12, 2019.
2. Lee, B., Falcone, R. (2018, December 12). Dear Joohn: The
Sofacy Group’s Global Campaign. Retrieved April 19, 2019.
29. ESET Research. (2019, May 22). A journey to Zebrocy land.
Retrieved June 20, 2019.
30. Accenture Security. (2018, November 29). SNAKEMACKEREL.
Retrieved April 15, 2019.