3/22/24, 3:42 PM Process Injection: Extra Window Memory Injection, Sub-technique T1055.011 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1055/011/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:42 PM Process Injection: Extra Window Memory Injection, Sub-technique T1055.011 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1055/011/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Process Injection>Extra Window Memory Injection3/22/24, 3:42 PM Process Injection: Extra Window Memory Injection, Sub-technique T1055.011 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1055/011/ 3/4Process Injection: Extra Window Memory Injection
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0091 Epic Epic has overwritten the function pointer in the extra window memory of Explorer's Shell\_TrayWnd in order to
execute malicious code in the context of the explorer.exe process.
S0177 Power
LoaderPower Loader overwrites Explorer’s Shell\_TrayWnd extra window memory to redirect execution to a NTDLL
function that is abused to assemble and execute a return-oriented programming (ROP) chain and create a
malicious thread within Explorer.exe.Adversaries may inject malicious code into process via Extra Window Memory (EWM) in order to evade process-based defenses as well as
possibly elevate privileges. EWM injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process.
Before creating a window, graphical Windows-based processes must prescribe to or register a windows class, which stipulate appearance
and behavior (via windows procedures, which are functions that handle input/output of data). Registration of new windows classes can
include a request for up to 40 bytes of EWM to be appended to the allocated memory of each instance of that class. This EWM is intended to
store data speciﬁc to that window and has speciﬁc application programming interface (API) functions to set and get its value. 
Although small, the EWM is large enough to store a 32-bit pointer and is often used to point to a windows procedure. Malware may possibly
utilize this memory location in part of an attack chain that includes writing code to shared sections of the process’s memory, placing a
pointer to the code in EWM, then invoking execution by returning execution control to the address in the process’s EWM.
Execution granted through EWM injection may allow access to both the target process's memory and possibly elevated privileges. Writing
payloads to shared sections also avoids the use of highly monitored API calls such as WriteProcessMemory and CreateRemoteThread .
More sophisticated malware samples may also potentially bypass protection mechanisms such as data execution prevention (DEP) by
triggering a combination of windows procedures and other system functions that will rewrite the malicious payload inside an executable
portion of the target process. 
Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly
elevated privileges. Execution via EWM injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a
legitimate process.Other sub-techniques of Process Injection (12)
[1]
[2][3]
[4]
[5][6]
Version PermalinkID: T1055.011
Sub-technique of:  T1055

Tactics: Defense Evasion, Privilege Escalation

Platforms: Windows

Defense Bypassed: Anti-virus, Application control
Version: 1.0
Created: 14 January 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 10 November 2020
[7]
[5][6]3/22/24, 3:42 PM Process Injection: Extra Window Memory Injection, Sub-technique T1055.011 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1055/011/ 4/4Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1040 Behavior Prevention
on EndpointSome endpoint security solutions can be conﬁgured to block some types of process injection based
on common sequences of behavior that occur during the injection process.
Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0009 Process OS API
ExecutionMonitor for API calls related to enumerating and manipulating EWM such as GetWindowLong
 and SetWindowLong . Malware associated with this technique have also used
SendNotifyMessage to trigger the associated window procedure and eventual malicious
injection. 
References[2] [3]
[8]
[4]
1. Microsoft. (n.d.). About Window Classes. Retrieved December
16, 2017.
2. Microsoft. (n.d.). GetWindowLong function. Retrieved
December 16, 2017.
3. Microsoft. (n.d.). SetWindowLong function. Retrieved
December 16, 2017.
4. Hosseini, A. (2017, July 18). Ten Process Injection Techniques:
A Technical Survey Of Common And Trending Process
Injection Techniques. Retrieved December 7, 2017.5. MalwareTech. (2013, August 13). PowerLoader Injection –
Something truly amazing. Retrieved December 16, 2017.
. Matrosov, A. (2013, March 19). Gapz and Redyms droppers
based on Power Loader code. Retrieved December 16, 2017.
7. Boutin, J. and Faou, M. (2018). Visiting the snake nest.
Retrieved May 7, 2019.
. Microsoft. (n.d.). SendNotifyMessage function. Retrieved
December 16, 2017.