3/22/24, 3:33 PM Search Closed Sources, Technique T1597 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1597/ 1/3Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:33 PM Search Closed Sources, Technique T1597 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1597/ 2/3Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Search Closed Sources3/22/24, 3:33 PM Search Closed Sources, Technique T1597 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1597/ 3/3Search Closed Sources
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G1011 EXOTIC
LILYEXOTIC LILY has searched for information on targeted individuals on business databases including
RocketReach and CrunchBase.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1056 Pre-
compromiseThis technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on behaviors performed
outside of the scope of enterprise defenses and controls. Efforts should focus on minimizing the amount
and sensitivity of data available to external parties.
Detection
Much of this activity may have a very high occurrence and associated false positive rate, as well as potentially taking place outside the
visibility of the target organization, making detection diﬃcult for defenders.
Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Initial Access.
ReferencesAdversaries may search and gather information about victims from closed sources that can be used during targeting. Information about
victims may be available for purchase from reputable private sources and databases, such as paid subscriptions to feeds of technical/threat
intelligence data. Adversaries may also purchase information from less-reputable sources such as dark web or cybercrime blackmarkets.
Adversaries may search in different closed databases depending on what information they seek to gather. Information from these sources
may reveal opportunities for other forms of reconnaissance (ex: Phishing for Information or Search Open Websites/Domains), establishing
operational resources (ex: Develop Capabilities or Obtain Capabilities), and/or initial access (ex: External Remote Services or Valid
Accounts).Sub-techniques (2)
[1] [2]
Version PermalinkID: T1597
Sub-techniques:  T1597.001, T1597.002

Tactic: Reconnaissance

Platforms: PRE
Version: 1.0
Created: 02 October 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 15 April 2021
[3]
1. Banerd, W. (2019, April 30). 10 of the Best Open Source Threat
Intelligence Feeds. Retrieved October 20, 2020.
2. Cimpanu, C. (2020, May 9). A hacker group is selling more
than 73 million user records on the dark web. Retrieved
October 20, 2020.3. Stolyarov, V. (2022, March 17). Exposing initial access broker
with ties to Conti. Retrieved August 18, 2022.