3/22/24, 3:50 PM Browser Session Hijacking, Technique T1185 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1185/ 1/5Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:50 PM Browser Session Hijacking, Technique T1185 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1185/ 2/5Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Browser Session Hijacking3/22/24, 3:50 PM Browser Session Hijacking, Technique T1185 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1185/ 3/5Browser Session Hijacking
Adversaries may take advantage of security vulnerabilities and inherent functionality in browser software to change content, modify user-
behaviors, and intercept information as part of various browser session hijacking techniques.
A speciﬁc example is when an adversary injects software into a browser that allows them to inherit cookies, HTTP sessions, and SSL client
certiﬁcates of a user then use the browser as a way to pivot into an authenticated intranet. Executing browser-based behaviors such as
pivoting may require speciﬁc process permissions, such as SeDebugPrivilege and/or high-integrity/administrator rights.
Another example involves pivoting browser traﬃc from the adversary's browser through the user's browser by setting up a proxy which will
redirect web traﬃc. This does not alter the user's traﬃc in any way, and the proxy connection can be severed as soon as the browser is
closed. The adversary assumes the security context of whichever browser process the proxy is injected into. Browsers typically create a new
process for each tab that is opened and permissions and certiﬁcates are separated accordingly. With these permissions, an adversary could
potentially browse to any resource on an intranet, such as Sharepoint or webmail, that is accessible through the browser and which the
browser has suﬃcient permissions. Browser pivoting may also bypass security provided by 2-factor authentication.[1]
[2][3]
[4]
Version PermalinkID: T1185
Sub-techniques:  No sub-techniques

Tactic: Collection

Platforms: Windows

Permissions Required: Administrator, SYSTEM
Contributors: Justin Warner, ICEBRG
Version: 2.0
Created: 16 January 2018
Last Modiﬁed: 25 February 20223/22/24, 3:50 PM Browser Session Hijacking, Technique T1185 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1185/ 4/5Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0331 Agent Tesla Agent Tesla has the ability to use form-grabbing to extract data from web data forms.
S0484 Carberp Carberp has captured credentials when a user performs login through a SSL session.
S0631 Chaes Chaes has used the Puppeteer module to hook and monitor the Chrome web browser to collect user
information from infected hosts.
S0154 Cobalt
StrikeCobalt Strike can perform browser pivoting and inject into a user's browser to inherit cookies, authenticated
HTTP sessions, and client SSL certiﬁcates.
S0384 Dridex Dridex can perform browser attacks via web injects to steal information such as credentials, certiﬁcates, and
cookies.
S0531 Grandoreiro Grandoreiro can monitor browser activity for online banking actions and display full-screen overlay images to
block user access to the intended site or present additional data ﬁelds.
S0483 IcedID IcedID has used web injection attacks to redirect victims to spoofed sites designed to harvest banking and
other credentials. IcedID can use a self signed TLS certiﬁcate in connection with the spoofed site and
simultaneously maintains a live connection with the legitimate site to display the correct URL and certiﬁcates
in the browser.
S0530 Melcoz Melcoz can monitor the victim's browser for online banking sessions and display an overlay window to
manipulate the session in the background.
S0650 QakBot QakBot can use advanced web injects to steal web banking credentials.
S0266 TrickBot TrickBot uses web injects and browser redirection to trick the user into providing their login credentials on a
fake or modiﬁed web page.
S0386 Ursnif Ursnif has injected HTML codes into banking sites to steal sensitive online banking information (ex:
usernames and passwords).
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1018 User Account
ManagementSince browser pivoting requires a high integrity process to launch from, restricting user permissions
and addressing Privilege Escalation and Bypass User Account Control opportunities can limit the
exposure to this technique.
M1017 User Training Close all browser sessions regularly and when they are no longer needed.
Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0028 Logon Session Logon Session
CreationAuthentication logs can be used to audit logins to speciﬁc web applications, but
determining malicious logins versus benign logins may be diﬃcult if activity matches
typical user behavior.
DS0009 Process Process Access This may be a diﬃcult technique to detect because adversary traﬃc may be masked
by normal user traﬃc. Monitor for Process Injection against browser applications.
Process
ModiﬁcationThis may be a diﬃcult technique to detect because adversary traﬃc may be masked
by normal user traﬃc. Monitor for Process Injection against browser applications.[5]
[6][7]
[8]
[4][9]
[10]
[11][12][13]
[14][15]
[11]
[16][17]
[18][19][20][21]
[22]3/22/24, 3:50 PM Browser Session Hijacking, Technique T1185 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1185/ 5/5References
1. Wikipedia. (2017, October 28). Man-in-the-browser. Retrieved
January 10, 2018.
2. Mudge, R. (n.d.). Browser Pivoting. Retrieved January 10,
2018.
3. De Tore, M., Warner, J. (2018, January 15). MALICIOUS
CHROME EXTENSIONS ENABLE CRIMINALS TO IMPACT
OVER HALF A MILLION USERS AND GLOBAL BUSINESSES.
Retrieved January 17, 2018.
4. Strategic Cyber LLC. (2017, March 14). Cobalt Strike Manual.
Retrieved May 24, 2017.
5. Arsene, L. (2020, April 21). Oil & Gas Spearphishing
Campaigns Drop Agent Tesla Spyware in Advance of Historic
OPEC+ Deal. Retrieved May 19, 2020.
. Giuliani, M., Allievi, A. (2011, February 28). Carberp - a modular
information stealing trojan. Retrieved July 15, 2020.
7. Trusteer Fraud Prevention Center. (2010, October 7). Carberp
Under the Hood of Carberp: Malware & Conﬁguration Analysis.
Retrieved July 15, 2020.
. Salem, E. (2020, November 17). CHAES: Novel Malware
Targeting Latin American E-Commerce. Retrieved June 30,
2021.
9. Strategic Cyber LLC. (2020, November 5). Cobalt Strike:
Advanced Threat Tactics for Penetration Testers. Retrieved
April 13, 2021.
10. Dell SecureWorks Counter Threat Unit Threat Intelligence.
(2015, October 13). Dridex (Bugat v5) Botnet Takeover
Operation. Retrieved May 31, 2019.
11. GReAT. (2020, July 14). The Tetrade: Brazilian banking
malware goes global. Retrieved November 9, 2020.12. Abramov, D. (2020, April 13). Grandoreiro Malware Now
Targeting Banks in Spain. Retrieved November 12, 2020.
13. ESET. (2020, April 28). Grandoreiro: How engorged can an EXE
get?. Retrieved November 13, 2020.
14. Kessem, L., et al. (2017, November 13). New Banking Trojan
IcedID Discovered by IBM X-Force Research. Retrieved July 14,
2020.
15. Kimayong, P. (2020, June 18). COVID-19 and FMLA
Campaigns used to install new IcedID banking malware.
Retrieved July 14, 2020.
1. Cyberint. (2021, May 25). Qakbot Banking Trojan. Retrieved
September 27, 2021.
17. Kuzmenko, A. et al. (2021, September 2). QakBot technical
analysis. Retrieved September 27, 2021.
1. Reaves, J. (2016, October 15). TrickBot: We Missed you, Dyre.
Retrieved August 2, 2018.
19. Keshet, L. (2016, November 09). Tricks of the Trade: A Deeper
Look Into TrickBot’s Machinations. Retrieved August 2, 2018.
20. Pornasdoro, A. (2017, October 12). Trojan:Win32/Totbrick.
Retrieved September 14, 2018.
21. Anthony, N., Pascual, C.. (2018, November 1). Trickbot Shows
Off New Trick: Password Grabber Module. Retrieved
November 16, 2018.
22. Sioting, S. (2013, June 15). BKDR\_URSNIF.SM. Retrieved June
5, 2019.