3/7/24, 3:58 PM LLM Prompt Injection | MITRE ATLAS™
https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0051/ 1/2Home Techniques LLM Prompt Injection
LLM Prompt Injection
Summary󰅂 󰅂
An adversary may craft malicious prompts as inputs to an
LLM that cause the LLM to act in unintended ways. These
"prompt injections" are often designed to cause the model
to ignore aspects of its original instructions and follow the
adversary's instructions instead.
Prompt Injections can be an initial access vector to the LLM
that provides the adversary with a foothold to carry out
other steps in their operation. They may be designed to
bypass defenses in the LLM, or allow the adversary to issue
privileged commands. The effects of a prompt injection can
persist throughout an interactive session with an LLM.
Malicious prompts may be injected directly by the adversary
(Direct) either to leverage the LLM to generate harmful
content or to gain a foothold on the system and lead to
further effects. Prompts may also be injected indirectly
when as part of its normal operation the LLM ingests the
malicious prompt from another data source (Indirect). This
type of injection can be used by the adversary to a foothold
on the system or to target the user of the LLM.ID: AML.T0051
Subtechniques: LLM
Prompt Injection: Direct ,
LLM Prompt Injection:
Indirect
Number of Tactics: 4
Subtechniques󰅀󰍜 Matrices Navigator Tactics Techniques Mitigations Case Studies󰍝
This website utilizes technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality , as well as
for analytics, personalization, and targeted advertising purposes. To learn more, view the following
link: Privacy Policy
Manage Preferences3/7/24, 3:58 PM LLM Prompt Injection | MITRE ATLAS™
https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0051/ 2/2LLM Prompt Injection: Direct
LLM Prompt Injection: Indirect
Tactics󰅀
Initial Access
Persistence
Defense Evasion
Privilege Escalation
MITRE ATLAS™ and MITRE ATT&CK are a trademark and registered
trademark of The MITRE Corporation.®
PRIVACY POLICY TERMS OF USE MANAGE COOKIESCONTACT󰍜 Matrices Navigator Tactics Techniques Mitigations Case Studies󰍝
This website utilizes technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality , as well as
for analytics, personalization, and targeted advertising purposes. To learn more, view the following
link: Privacy Policy