3/22/24, 2:25 PM Acquire Public ML Artifacts: Datasets | MITRE ATLAS™
https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0002.000/ 1/3Home Techniques Acquire Public ML Artifacts
Acquire Public ML Artifacts:
Datasets󰅂 󰅂 󰅂
Datasets 󰅂
Summary
Adversaries may collect public datasets to use in their operations. Datasets used by
the victim organization or datasets that are representative of the data used by the
victim organization may be valuable to adversaries. Datasets can be stored in cloud
storage, or on victim-owned websites. Some datasets require the adversary to
Establish Accounts for access.
Acquired datasets help the adversary advance their operations, stage attacks, and
tailor attacks to the victim organization.
ID: AML.T0002.000
Number of Case Studies: 5
Mitigation: Limit Model Artifact Release
Other subtechniques: Acquire Public ML Artifacts: Models
Parent Technique: Acquire Public ML Artifacts
Tactics: Resource Development
Case Studies 󰅃
Evasion of Deep Learning Detector for Malware C&C Traffic󰍜 󰇙3/22/24, 2:25 PM Acquire Public ML Artifacts: Datasets | MITRE ATLAS™
https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0002.000/ 2/3Attack on Machine Translation Service - Google Translate, Bing Translator , and
Systran Translate
GPT-2 Model Replication
Face Identification System Evasion via Physical Countermeasures
Confusing Antimalware Neural Networks
Mitigation󰅃
Limit Model Artifact Release
Other Subtechniques 󰅃
Acquire Public ML Artifacts: Models
Parent Technique󰅃
Acquire Public ML Artifacts
Tactics󰅃
Resource Development󰍜 󰇙3/22/24, 2:25 PM Acquire Public ML Artifacts: Datasets | MITRE ATLAS™
https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0002.000/ 3/3Join our collaborative community
to shape future tool and
framework developments in AI
security , threat mitigation, bias,
privacy and other critical aspects
of AI assurance.www .mitre.org
© 2021-2024 The MITRE Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Approved for Public Release; Distribution Unlimited. Case Number 21-2363.
MITRE ATLAS™ and MITRE ATT&CK are a trademark and registered trademark of The MITRE
Corporation.
Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Manage CookiesCONNECT WITH US
󰅂
®󰍜 󰇙