3/22/24, 2:25 PM ML Supply Chain Compromise | MITRE ATLAS™
https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0010/ 1/3Home Techniques
ML Supply Chain
Compromise󰅂 󰅂
ML Supply Chain Compromise 󰅂
Summary
Adversaries may gain initial access to a system by compromising the unique
portions of the ML supply chain. This could include GPU Hardware , Data and its
annotations, parts of the ML ML Software stack, or the Model itself. In some
instances the attacker will need secondary access to fully carry out an attack using
compromised components of the supply chain.
ID: AML.T0010
Mitigation: Verify ML Artifacts
Number of Subtechniques: 4
Tactic: Initial Access
Mitigation󰅃
Verify ML Artifacts
Subtechniques 󰅃
ML Supply Chain Compromise: GPU Hardware󰍜 󰇙3/22/24, 2:25 PM ML Supply Chain Compromise | MITRE ATLAS™
https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0010/ 2/3ML Supply Chain Compromise: ML Software
ML Supply Chain Compromise: Data
ML Supply Chain Compromise: Model
Tactic󰅃
Initial Access
Join our collaborative community
to shape future tool and
framework developments in AI
security , threat mitigation, bias,
privacy and other critical aspects
of AI assurance.www .mitre.org
© 2021-2024 The MITRE Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Approved for Public Release; Distribution Unlimited. Case Number 21-2363.
MITRE ATLAS™ and MITRE ATT&CK are a trademark and registered trademark of The MITRE
Corporation.
Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Manage CookiesCONNECT WITH US
󰅂
®󰍜 󰇙3/22/24, 2:25 PM ML Supply Chain Compromise | MITRE ATLAS™
https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0010/ 3/3󰍜 󰇙