3/22/24, 2:25 PM Data from Information Repositories | MITRE ATLAS™
https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0036/ 1/2Home Techniques
Data from Information
Repositories󰅂 󰅂
Data From Information Repositories 󰅂
Summary
Adversaries may leverage information repositories to mine valuable information.
Information repositories are tools that allow for storage of information, typically to
facilitate collaboration or information sharing between users, and can store a wide
variety of data that may aid adversaries in further objectives, or direct access to the
target information.
Information stored in a repository may vary based on the specific instance or
environment. Specific common information repositories include SharePoint,
Confluence, and enterprise databases such as SQL Server .
ID: AML.T0036
ATT&CK Reference: T1213 
Case Study: ClearviewAI Misconfiguration
Tactic: Collection󰏌
Case Study 󰅃
ClearviewAI Misconfiguration󰍜 󰇙3/22/24, 2:25 PM Data from Information Repositories | MITRE ATLAS™
https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0036/ 2/2Tactic󰅃
Collection
Join our collaborative community
to shape future tool and
framework developments in AI
security , threat mitigation, bias,
privacy and other critical aspects
of AI assurance.www .mitre.org
© 2021-2024 The MITRE Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Approved for Public Release; Distribution Unlimited. Case Number 21-2363.
MITRE ATLAS™ and MITRE ATT&CK are a trademark and registered trademark of The MITRE
Corporation.
Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Manage CookiesCONNECT WITH US
󰅂
®󰍜 󰇙