3/24/24, 10:45 AM Privilege Escalation, Tactic TA0111 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0111/ 1/1Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.
Home>Tactics>ICS>Privilege Escalation
Privilege Escalation
Techniques
Techniques: 2
ID Name Description
T0890 Exploitation for
Privilege
EscalationAdversaries may exploit software vulnerabilities in an attempt to elevate privileges. Exploitation of a
software vulnerability occurs when an adversary takes advantage of a programming error in a program,
service, or within the operating system software or kernel itself to execute adversary-controlled code. Security
constructs such as permission levels will often hinder access to information and use of certain techniques,
so adversaries will likely need to perform privilege escalation to include use of software exploitation to
circumvent those restrictions.
T0874 Hooking Adversaries may hook into application programming interface (API) functions used by processes to redirect
calls for execution and privilege escalation means. Windows processes often leverage these API functions to
perform tasks that require reusable system resources. Windows API functions are typically stored in
dynamic-link libraries (DLLs) as exported functions.The adversary is trying to gain higher-level permissions.
Privilege Escalation consists of techniques that adversaries use to gain higher-level permissions on a system or network. Adversaries can
often enter and explore a network with unprivileged access but require elevated permissions to follow through on their objectives. Common
approaches are to take advantage of system weaknesses, misconﬁgurations, and vulnerabilities.
Version PermalinkID: TA0111
Created: 10 April 2021
Last Modiﬁed: 29 September 2022