3/24/24, 10:45 AM Initial Access, Tactic TA0108 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0108/ 1/5Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/24/24, 10:45 AM Initial Access, Tactic TA0108 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0108/ 2/5Home>Tactics>ICS>Initial Access3/24/24, 10:45 AM Initial Access, Tactic TA0108 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0108/ 3/5Initial Access
Techniques
Techniques: 12The adversary is trying to get into your ICS environment.
Initial Access consists of techniques that adversaries may use as entry vectors to gain an initial foothold within an ICS environment. These
techniques include compromising operational technology assets, IT resources in the OT network, and external remote services and websites.
They may also target third party entities and users with privileged access. In particular, these initial access footholds may include devices
and communication mechanisms with access to and privileges in both the IT and OT environments. IT resources in the OT environment are
also potentially vulnerable to the same attacks as enterprise IT systems. Trusted third parties of concern may include vendors, maintenance
personnel, engineers, external integrators, and other outside entities involved in expected ICS operations. Vendor maintained assets may
include physical devices, software, and operational equipment. Initial access techniques may also leverage outside devices, such as radios,
controllers, or removable media, to remotely interfere with and possibly infect OT operations.
Version PermalinkID: TA0108
Created: 17 October 2018
Last Modiﬁed: 09 March 20233/24/24, 10:45 AM Initial Access, Tactic TA0108 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0108/ 4/5ID Name Description
T0817 Drive-by
CompromiseAdversaries may gain access to a system during a drive-by compromise, when a user visits a website as
part of a regular browsing session. With this technique, the user's web browser is targeted and exploited
simply by visiting the compromised website.
T0819 Exploit Public-
Facing ApplicationAdversaries may leverage weaknesses to exploit internet-facing software for initial access into an
industrial network. Internet-facing software may be user applications, underlying networking
implementations, an assets operating system, weak defenses, etc. Targets of this technique may be
intentionally exposed for the purpose of remote management and visibility.
T0866 Exploitation of
Remote ServicesAdversaries may exploit a software vulnerability to take advantage of a programming error in a program,
service, or within the operating system software or kernel itself to enable remote service abuse. A common
goal for post-compromise exploitation of remote services is for initial access into and lateral movement
throughout the ICS environment to enable access to targeted systems.
T0822 External Remote
ServicesAdversaries may leverage external remote services as a point of initial access into your network. These
services allow users to connect to internal network resources from external locations. Examples are VPNs,
Citrix, and other access mechanisms. Remote service gateways often manage connections and credential
authentication for these services.
T0883 Internet Accessible
DeviceAdversaries may gain access into industrial environments through systems exposed directly to the
internet for remote access rather than through External Remote Services. Internet Accessible Devices are
exposed to the internet unintentionally or intentionally without adequate protections. This may allow for
adversaries to move directly into the control system network. Access onto these devices is accomplished
without the use of exploits, these would be represented within the Exploit Public-Facing Application
technique.
T0886 Remote Services Adversaries may leverage remote services to move between assets and network segments. These services
are often used to allow operators to interact with systems remotely within the network, some examples
are RDP, SMB, SSH, and other similar mechanisms.
T0847 Replication
Through
Removable MediaAdversaries may move onto systems, such as those separated from the enterprise network, by copying
malware to removable media which is inserted into the control systems environment. The adversary may
rely on unknowing trusted third parties, such as suppliers or contractors with access privileges, to
introduce the removable media. This technique enables initial access to target devices that never connect
to untrusted networks, but are physically accessible.
T0848 Rogue Master Adversaries may setup a rogue master to leverage control server functions to communicate with
outstations. A rogue master can be used to send legitimate control messages to other control system
devices, affecting processes in unintended ways. It may also be used to disrupt network communications
by capturing and receiving the network traﬃc meant for the actual master. Impersonating a master may
also allow an adversary to avoid detection.
T0865 Spearphishing
AttachmentAdversaries may use a spearphishing attachment, a variant of spearphishing, as a form of a social
engineering attack against speciﬁc targets. Spearphishing attachments are different from other forms of
spearphishing in that they employ malware attached to an email. All forms of spearphishing are
electronically delivered and target a speciﬁc individual, company, or industry. In this scenario, adversaries
attach a ﬁle to the spearphishing email and usually rely upon User Execution to gain execution and
access.
T0862 Supply Chain
CompromiseAdversaries may perform supply chain compromise to gain control systems environment access by
means of infected products, software, and workﬂows. Supply chain compromise is the manipulation of
products, such as devices or software, or their delivery mechanisms before receipt by the end consumer.
Adversary compromise of these products and mechanisms is done for the goal of data or system
compromise, once infected products are introduced to the target environment.
T0864 Transient Cyber
AssetAdversaries may target devices that are transient across ICS networks and external networks. Normally,
transient assets are brought into an environment by authorized personnel and do not remain in that
environment on a permanent basis. Transient assets are commonly needed to support management
functions and may be more common in systems where a remotely managed asset is not feasible, external
connections for remote access do not exist, or 3rd party contractor/vendor access is required.3/24/24, 10:45 AM Initial Access, Tactic TA0108 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0108/ 5/5ID Name Description
T0860 Wireless
CompromiseAdversaries may perform wireless compromise as a method of gaining communications and
unauthorized access to a wireless network. Access to a wireless network may be gained through the
compromise of a wireless device. Adversaries may also utilize radios and other wireless communication
devices on the same frequency as the wireless network. Wireless compromise can be done as an initial
access vector from a remote distance.