3/24/24, 10:45 AM Persistence, Tactic TA0110 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0110/ 1/1Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.
Home>Tactics>ICS>Persistence
P e r s i s t e n c e
T e c h n i q u e s
Techniques: 6
ID Name Description
T0891 Hardcoded
CredentialsAdversaries may leverage credentials that are hardcoded in software or ﬁrmware to gain an unauthorized
interactive user session to an asset. Examples credentials that may be hardcoded in an asset include:
T0889 Modify
ProgramAdversaries may modify or add a program on a controller to affect how it interacts with the physical process,
peripheral devices and other hosts on the network. Modiﬁcation to controller programs can be accomplished
using a Program Download in addition to other types of program modiﬁcation such as online edit and program
append.
T0839 Module
FirmwareAdversaries may install malicious or vulnerable ﬁrmware onto modular hardware devices. Control system
devices often contain modular hardware devices. These devices may have their own set of ﬁrmware that is
separate from the ﬁrmware of the main control system equipment.
T0873 Project File
InfectionAdversaries may attempt to infect project ﬁles with malicious code. These project ﬁles may consist of objects,
program organization units, variables such as tags, documentation, and other conﬁgurations needed for PLC
programs to function. Using built in functions of the engineering software, adversaries may be able to download
an infected program to a PLC in the operating environment enabling further Execution and Persistence
techniques.
T0857 System
FirmwareSystem ﬁrmware on modern assets is often designed with an update feature. Older device ﬁrmware may be
factory installed and require special reprograming equipment. When available, the ﬁrmware update feature
enables vendors to remotely patch bugs and perform upgrades. Device ﬁrmware updates are often delegated to
the user and may be done using a software update package. It may also be possible to perform this task over
the network.
T0859 Valid
AccountsAdversaries may steal the credentials of a speciﬁc user or service account using credential access techniques.
In some cases, default credentials for control system devices may be publicly available. Compromised
credentials may be used to bypass access controls placed on various resources on hosts and within the
network, and may even be used for persistent access to remote systems. Compromised and default credentials
may also grant an adversary increased privilege to speciﬁc systems and devices or access to restricted areas of
the network. Adversaries may choose not to use malware or tools, in conjunction with the legitimate access
those credentials provide, to make it harder to detect their presence or to control devices and send legitimate
commands in an unintended way.The adversary is trying to maintain their foothold in your ICS environment.
Persistence consists of techniques that adversaries use to maintain access to ICS systems and devices across restarts, changed credentials,
and other interruptions that could cut off their access. Techniques used for persistence include any access, action, or conﬁguration changes
that allow them to secure their ongoing activity and keep their foothold on systems. This may include replacing or hijacking legitimate code,
ﬁrmware, and other project ﬁles, or adding startup code and downloading programs onto devices.
Version PermalinkID: TA0110
Created: 17 October 2018
Last Modiﬁed: 09 March 2023