3/24/24, 10:45 AM Impair Process Control, Tactic TA0106 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0106/ 1/2Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/24/24, 10:45 AM Impair Process Control, Tactic TA0106 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0106/ 2/2Home>Tactics>ICS>Impair Process Control
Impair Process Control
Techniques
Techniques: 5
ID Name Description
T0806 Brute Force I/O Adversaries may repetitively or successively change I/O point values to perform an action. Brute Force I/O
may be achieved by changing either a range of I/O point values or a single point value repeatedly to
manipulate a process function. The adversary's goal and the information they have about the target
environment will inﬂuence which of the options they choose. In the case of brute forcing a range of point
values, the adversary may be able to achieve an impact without targeting a speciﬁc point. In the case where
a single point is targeted, the adversary may be able to generate instability on the process function
associated with that particular point.
T0836 Modify
ParameterAdversaries may modify parameters used to instruct industrial control system devices. These devices
operate via programs that dictate how and when to perform actions based on such parameters. Such
parameters can determine the extent to which an action is performed and may specify additional options.
For example, a program on a control system device dictating motor processes may take a parameter
deﬁning the total number of seconds to run that motor.
T0839 Module
FirmwareAdversaries may install malicious or vulnerable ﬁrmware onto modular hardware devices. Control system
devices often contain modular hardware devices. These devices may have their own set of ﬁrmware that is
separate from the ﬁrmware of the main control system equipment.
T0856 Spoof Reporting
MessageAdversaries may spoof reporting messages in control system environments for evasion and to impair
process control. In control systems, reporting messages contain telemetry data (e.g., I/O values) pertaining
to the current state of equipment and the industrial process. Reporting messages are important for
monitoring the normal operation of a system or identifying important events such as deviations from
expected values.
T0855 Unauthorized
Command
MessageAdversaries may send unauthorized command messages to instruct control system assets to perform
actions outside of their intended functionality, or without the logical preconditions to trigger their expected
function. Command messages are used in ICS networks to give direct instructions to control systems
devices. If an adversary can send an unauthorized command message to a control system, then it can
instruct the control systems device to perform an action outside the normal bounds of the device's actions.
An adversary could potentially instruct a control systems device to perform an action that will cause an
Impact.The adversary is trying to manipulate, disable, or damage physical control processes.
Impair Process Control consists of techniques that adversaries use to disrupt control logic and cause determinantal effects to processes
being controlled in the target environment. Targets of interest may include active procedures or parameters that manipulate the physical
environment. These techniques can also include prevention or manipulation of reporting elements and control logic. If an adversary has
modiﬁed process functionality, then they may also obfuscate the results, which are often self-revealing in their impact on the outcome of a
product or the environment. The direct physical control these techniques exert may also threaten the safety of operators and downstream
users, which can prompt response mechanisms. Adversaries may follow up with or use Inhibit Response Function techniques in tandem, to
assist with the successful abuse of control processes to result in Impact.
Version PermalinkID: TA0106
Created: 17 October 2018
Last Modiﬁed: 08 March 2023