3/24/24, 10:45 AM Command and Control, Tactic TA0101 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0101/ 1/1Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.
Home>Tactics>ICS>Command and Control
Command and Control
Techniques
Techniques: 3
ID Name Description
T0885 Commonly
Used PortAdversaries may communicate over a commonly used port to bypass ﬁrewalls or network detection systems
and to blend in with normal network activity, to avoid more detailed inspection. They may use the protocol
associated with the port, or a completely different protocol. They may use commonly open ports, such as the
examples provided below.
T0884 Connection
ProxyAdversaries may use a connection proxy to direct network traﬃc between systems or act as an intermediary
for network communications.
T0869 Standard
Application
Layer ProtocolAdversaries may establish command and control capabilities over commonly used application layer
protocols such as HTTP(S), OPC, RDP, telnet, DNP3, and modbus. These protocols may be used to disguise
adversary actions as benign network traﬃc. Standard protocols may be seen on their associated port or in
some cases over a non-standard port. Adversaries may use these protocols to reach out of the network for
command and control, or in some cases to other infected devices within the network.The adversary is trying to communicate with and control compromised systems, controllers, and platforms with access to your ICS
environment.
Command and Control consists of techniques that adversaries use to communicate with and send commands to compromised systems,
devices, controllers, and platforms with specialized applications used in ICS environments. Examples of these specialized communication
devices include human machine interfaces (HMIs), data historians, SCADA servers, and engineering workstations (EWS). Adversaries often
seek to use commonly available resources and mimic expected network traﬃc to avoid detection and suspicion. For instance, commonly
used ports and protocols in ICS environments, and even expected IT resources, depending on the target network. Command and Control may
be established to varying degrees of stealth, often depending on the victim’s network structure and defenses.
Version PermalinkID: TA0101
Created: 17 October 2018
Last Modiﬁed: 09 March 2023