3/24/24, 10:45 AM Execution, Tactic TA0104 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0104/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/24/24, 10:45 AM Execution, Tactic TA0104 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0104/ 2/4Home>Tactics>ICS>Execution3/24/24, 10:45 AM Execution, Tactic TA0104 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0104/ 3/4E x e c u t i o n
T e c h n i q u e s
Techniques: 9The adversary is trying to run code or manipulate system functions, parameters, and data in an unauthorized way.
Execution consists of techniques that result in adversary-controlled code running on a local or remote system, device, or other asset. This
execution may also rely on unknowing end users or the manipulation of device operating modes to run. Adversaries may infect remote
targets with programmed executables or malicious project ﬁles that operate according to speciﬁed behavior and may alter expected device
behavior in subtle ways. Commands for execution may also be issued from command-line interfaces, APIs, GUIs, or other available
interfaces. Techniques that run malicious code may also be paired with techniques from other tactics, particularly to aid network Discovery
and Collection, impact operations, and inhibit response functions.
Version PermalinkID: TA0104
Created: 17 October 2018
Last Modiﬁed: 08 March 20233/24/24, 10:45 AM Execution, Tactic TA0104 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0104/ 4/4ID Name Description
T0858 Change
Operating
ModeAdversaries may change the operating mode of a controller to gain additional access to engineering functions
such as Program Download. Programmable controllers typically have several modes of operation that control
the state of the user program and control access to the controllers API. Operating modes can be physically
selected using a key switch on the face of the controller but may also be selected with calls to the controllers
API. Operating modes and the mechanisms by which they are selected often vary by vendor and product line.
Some commonly implemented operating modes are described below:
T0807 Command-
Line
InterfaceAdversaries may utilize command-line interfaces (CLIs) to interact with systems and execute commands. CLIs
provide a means of interacting with computer systems and are a common feature across many types of
platforms and devices within control systems environments. Adversaries may also use CLIs to install and run
new software, including malicious tools that may be installed over the course of an operation.
T0871 Execution
through APIAdversaries may attempt to leverage Application Program Interfaces (APIs) used for communication between
control software and the hardware. Speciﬁc functionality is often coded into APIs which can be called by
software to engage speciﬁc functions on a device or other software.
T0823 Graphical
User
InterfaceAdversaries may attempt to gain access to a machine via a Graphical User Interface (GUI) to enhance execution
capabilities. Access to a GUI allows a user to interact with a computer in a more visual manner than a CLI. A GUI
allows users to move a cursor and click on interface objects, with a mouse and keyboard as the main input
devices, as opposed to just using the keyboard.
T0874 Hooking Adversaries may hook into application programming interface (API) functions used by processes to redirect
calls for execution and privilege escalation means. Windows processes often leverage these API functions to
perform tasks that require reusable system resources. Windows API functions are typically stored in dynamic-
link libraries (DLLs) as exported functions.
T0821 Modify
Controller
TaskingAdversaries may modify the tasking of a controller to allow for the execution of their own programs. This can
allow an adversary to manipulate the execution ﬂow and behavior of a controller.
T0834 Native API Adversaries may directly interact with the native OS application programming interface (API) to access system
functions. Native APIs provide a controlled means of calling low-level OS services within the kernel, such as
those involving hardware/devices, memory, and processes. These native APIs are leveraged by the OS during
system boot (when other system components are not yet initialized) as well as carrying out tasks and requests
during routine operations.
T0853 Scripting Adversaries may use scripting languages to execute arbitrary code in the form of a pre-written script or in the
form of user-supplied code to an interpreter. Scripting languages are programming languages that differ from
compiled languages, in that scripting languages use an interpreter, instead of a compiler. These interpreters read
and compile part of the source code just before it is executed, as opposed to compilers, which compile each and
every line of code to an executable ﬁle. Scripting allows software developers to run their code on any system
where the interpreter exists. This way, they can distribute one package, instead of precompiling executables for
many different systems. Scripting languages, such as Python, have their interpreters shipped as a default with
many Linux distributions.
T0863 User
ExecutionAdversaries may rely on a targeted organizations user interaction for the execution of malicious code. User
interaction may consist of installing applications, opening email attachments, or granting higher permissions to
documents.