3/22/24, 3:50 PM Remote Services: Windows Remote Management, Sub-technique T1021.006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/006/ 1/6Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:50 PM Remote Services: Windows Remote Management, Sub-technique T1021.006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/006/ 2/6Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Remote Services>Windows Remote Management3/22/24, 3:50 PM Remote Services: Windows Remote Management, Sub-technique T1021.006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/006/ 3/6Remote Services: Windows Remote Management
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S1063 Brute Ratel C4 Brute Ratel C4 can use WinRM for pivoting.
G0114 Chimera Chimera has used WinRM for lateral movement.
S0154 Cobalt Strike Cobalt Strike can use WinRM to execute a payload on a remote host.
G1016 FIN13 FIN13 has leveraged WMI to move laterally within a compromised network via application servers
and SQL servers.
S0692 SILENTTRINITY SILENTTRINITY tracks TrustedHosts and can move laterally to these targets via WinRM.
C0024 SolarWinds
CompromiseDuring the SolarWinds Compromise, APT29 used WinRM via PowerShell to execute commands and
payloads on remote hosts.
G0027 Threat Group-3390 Threat Group-3390 has used WinRM to enable remote execution.
G0102 Wizard Spider Wizard Spider has used Window Remote Management to move laterally through a victim network.Adversaries may use Valid Accounts to interact with remote systems using Windows Remote Management (WinRM). The adversary may
then perform actions as the logged-on user.
WinRM is the name of both a Windows service and a protocol that allows a user to interact with a remote system (e.g., run an executable,
modify the Registry, modify services). It may be called with the winrm command or by any number of programs such as PowerShell.
WinRM can be used as a method of remotely interacting with Windows Management Instrumentation.Other sub-techniques of Remote Services (8)
[1] [2]
[3]
Version PermalinkID: T1021.006
Sub-technique of:  T1021

Tactic: Lateral Movement

Platforms: Windows
Version: 1.2
Created: 11 February 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 11 August 2023
[4]
[5]
[6][7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]
[12]3/22/24, 3:50 PM Remote Services: Windows Remote Management, Sub-technique T1021.006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/006/ 4/6Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1042 Disable or Remove
Feature or ProgramDisable the WinRM service.
M1030 Network Segmentation If the service is necessary, lock down critical enclaves with separate WinRM infrastructure and
follow WinRM best practices on use of host ﬁrewalls to restrict WinRM access to allow
communication only to/from speciﬁc devices.
M1026 Privileged Account
ManagementIf the service is necessary, lock down critical enclaves with separate WinRM accounts and
permissions.[13]3/22/24, 3:50 PM Remote Services: Windows Remote Management, Sub-technique T1021.006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/006/ 5/6Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that may invoke a WinRM script to
correlate it with other related events.
DS0028 Logon Session Logon Session
CreationMonitor for user accounts logging into the system via Valid Accounts to interact with
remote systems using Windows Remote Management (WinRM). The adversary may then
perform actions as the logged-on user.
DS0029 Network TraﬃcNetwork
Connection
CreationMonitor for newly constructed network connections using Windows Remote
Management (WinRM), such as remote WMI connection attempts (typically over port
5985 when using HTTP and 5986 for HTTPS).
Network Traﬃc
FlowMonitor network data for uncommon data ﬂows. Processes utilizing the network that do
not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are
suspicious. Network Analysis frameworks such as Zeek can be used to capture, decode,
and alert on RPC network ﬂows.
When a Windows Remote Management connection is opened, the client sends HTTP
requests to port 5985 for HTTP or 5986 for HTTPS on the target host. Each HTTP(S)
request to the URI "/wsman" is called, and other information is set in the headers.
Depending on the operation, the HTTP method may vary (i.e., GET, POST, etc.). This
analytic would detect Remote PowerShell, as well as other communications that rely on
WinRM. Additionally, it outputs the executable on the client host, the connection
information, and the hostname of the target host. Look for network connections to port
5985 and 5986. To really decipher what is going on, these outputs should be fed into
something that can do packet analysis.
Note: Traﬃc to the RPC Endpoint Mapper will always have the destination port of 135.
Assuming success, RPC traﬃc will continue to the endpoint. The endpoint and the client
both bind to dynamically assigned ports (on Windows, this is typically greater than
49152). The traﬃc between the client and endpoint can be detected by looking at traﬃc
to 135 followed by traﬃc where the source and destination ports are at least 49152.
Analytic 1 - RPC Activity
rpc\_mapper = filter flows where (dest\_port == 135)rpc\_endpoint = filter
flows where (dest\_port >= 49152 and src\_port >= 49152)rpc = join
rpc\_mapper, rpc\_endpoint where ( (rpc\_mapper.time < rpc\_endpoint.time <
rpc\_mapper.time + 2 seconds) AND (rpc\_mapper.src\_ip == rpc\_endpoint.src\_ip
AND rpc\_mapper.dest\_ip == rpc\_endpoint.dest\_ip))
Analytic 2 - WinRM
winrm = filter flow where (dest\_port == 5985)winrm\_s = filter flow where
(dest\_port == 5986)
DS0009 Process Process
CreationMonitor for newly executed processes that may use Valid Accounts to interact with
remote systems using Windows Remote Management (WinRM), as well as service
processes such as wmiprvse.exe on destination hosts.
DS0019 Service Service
MetadataMonitor use of WinRM within an environment by tracking service execution. If it is not
normally used or is disabled, then this may be an indicator of suspicious behavior.[14]3/22/24, 3:50 PM Remote Services: Windows Remote Management, Sub-technique T1021.006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/006/ 6/6References
1. Microsoft. (n.d.). Windows Remote Management. Retrieved
November 12, 2014.
2. Jacobsen, K. (2014, May 16). Lateral Movement with
PowerShell[slides]. Retrieved November 12, 2014.
3. Microsoft. (n.d.). Windows Management Instrumentation.
Retrieved April 27, 2016.
4. Harbison, M. and Renals, P. (2022, July 5). When Pentest Tools
Go Brutal: Red-Teaming Tool Being Abused by Malicious
Actors. Retrieved February 1, 2023.
5. Jansen, W . (2021, January 12). Abusing cloud services to ﬂy
under the radar. Retrieved January 19, 2021.
. Strategic Cyber LLC. (2017, March 14). Cobalt Strike Manual.
Retrieved May 24, 2017.
7. Strategic Cyber LLC. (2020, November 5). Cobalt Strike:
Advanced Threat Tactics for Penetration Testers. Retrieved
April 13, 2021.. Sygnia Incident Response Team. (2022, January 5). TG2003:
ELEPHANT BEETLE UNCOVERING AN ORGANIZED
FINANCIAL-THEFT OPERATION. Retrieved February 9, 2023.
9. Salvati, M. (2019, August 6). SILENTTRINITY Modules.
Retrieved March 24, 2022.
10. Symantec Threat Hunter Team. (2021, January 18). Raindrop:
New Malware Discovered in SolarWinds Investigation.
Retrieved January 19, 2021.
11. Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2017, June 27). BRONZE
UNION Cyberespionage Persists Despite Disclosures.
Retrieved July 13, 2017.
12. DHS/CISA. (2020, October 28). Ransomware Activity
Targeting the Healthcare and Public Health Sector. Retrieved
October 28, 2020.
13. National Security Agency/Central Security Service Information
Assurance Directorate. (2015, August 7). Spotting the
Adversary with Windows Event Log Monitoring. Retrieved
September 6, 2018.
14. French, D. (2018, September 30). Detecting Lateral Movement
Using Sysmon and Splunk. Retrieved October 11, 2019.