3/22/24, 3:40 PM Hijack Execution Flow: Services Registry Permissions Weakness, Sub-technique T1574.011 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1574/011/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:40 PM Hijack Execution Flow: Services Registry Permissions Weakness, Sub-technique T1574.011 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1574/011/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Hijack Execution Flow>Services Registry Permissions Weakness3/22/24, 3:40 PM Hijack Execution Flow: Services Registry Permissions Weakness, Sub-technique T1574.011 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1574/011/ 3/4Hijack Execution Flow: Services Registry Permissions
Weakness
Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the Registry entries used by services. Adversaries may use ﬂaws in the
permissions for Registry keys related to services to redirect from the originally speciﬁed executable to one that they control, in order to
launch their own code when a service starts. Windows stores local service conﬁguration information in the Registry under
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services . The information stored under a service's Registry keys can be manipulated to modify a
service's execution parameters through tools such as the service controller, sc.exe, PowerShell, or Reg. Access to Registry keys is controlled
through access control lists and user permissions. 
If the permissions for users and groups are not properly set and allow access to the Registry keys for a service, adversaries may change the
service's binPath/ImagePath to point to a different executable under their control. When the service starts or is restarted, then the adversary-
controlled program will execute, allowing the adversary to establish persistence and/or privilege escalation to the account context the service
is set to execute under (local/domain account, SYSTEM, LocalService, or NetworkService).
Adversaries may also alter other Registry keys in the service’s Registry tree. For example, the FailureCommand key may be changed so that
the service is executed in an elevated context anytime the service fails or is intentionally corrupted.
The Performance key contains the name of a driver service's performance DLL and the names of several exported functions in the DLL. If
the Performance key is not already present and if an adversary-controlled user has the Create Subkey permission, adversaries may create
the Performance key in the service’s Registry tree to point to a malicious DLL.
Adversaries may also add the Parameters key, which stores driver-speciﬁc data, or other custom subkeys for their malicious services to
establish persistence or enable other malicious activities. Additionally, If adversaries launch their malicious services using svchost.exe,
the service’s ﬁle may be identiﬁed using
HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\servicename\Parameters\ServiceDll .Other sub-techniques of Hijack Execution Flow (12)
[1][2]
[3][4]
[5]
[6]
[5][7]
[2]
Version PermalinkID: T1574.011
Sub-technique of:  T1574

Tactics: Persistence, Privilege Escalation, Defense Evasion

Platforms: Windows

Permissions Required: Administrator, User

Effective Permissions: SYSTEM

Defense Bypassed: Application Control
Contributors: Matthew Demaske, Adaptforward; Travis Smith, Tripwire
Version: 1.1
Created: 13 March 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 30 March 20233/22/24, 3:40 PM Hijack Execution Flow: Services Registry Permissions Weakness, Sub-technique T1574.011 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1574/011/ 4/4Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
C0006 Operation
HoneybeeDuring Operation Honeybee, the threat actors used a batch ﬁle that modiﬁed the COMSysApp service to
load a malicious ipnet.dll payload and to load a DLL into the svchost.exe process.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1024 Restrict Registry
PermissionsEnsure proper permissions are set for Registry hives to prevent users from modifying keys for
system components that may lead to privilege escalation.
Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor for the execution of commands and arguments that can be used for
adversaries to modify services' registry keys and values through applications such
as Windows Management Instrumentation and PowerShell. Additional logging may
need to be conﬁgured to gather the appropriate data.
DS0009 Process Process Creation Monitor suspicious programs execution through services. These processes may
show up as outlier processes that have not been seen before when compared
against historical data.
DS0019 Service Service
ModiﬁcationModiﬁcation to existing services should not occur frequently. If a service binary path
or failure parameters are changed to values that are not typical for that service and
does not correlate with software updates, then it may be due to malicious activity.
DS0024 Windows RegistryWindows
Registry Key
ModiﬁcationMonitor for modiﬁcation of Registry keys and values used by services such as
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services that may allow adversaries to launch
their own code when a service starts.
References[8]
1. Microsoft. (2018, May 31). Registry Key Security and Access
Rights. Retrieved March 16, 2017.
2. Lawrence Abrams. (2004, September 10). How Malware hides
and is installed as a Service. Retrieved August 30, 2021.
3. Hull, D.. (2014, May 3). Kansa: Service related collectors and
analysis. Retrieved October 10, 2019.
4. @r0wdy\_. (2017, November 30). Service Recovery Parameters.
Retrieved April 9, 2018.5. Microsoft. (2021, August 5).
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services Registry Tree.
Retrieved August 25, 2021.
. Clément Labro. (2020, November 12). Windows
RpcEptMapper Service Insecure Registry Permissions EoP.
Retrieved August 25, 2021.
7. Trend Micro. (2012, October 9). TROJ\_ZEGOST. Retrieved
September 2, 2021.
. Sherstobitoff, R. (2018, March 02). McAfee Uncovers
Operation Honeybee, a Malicious Document Campaign
Targeting Humanitarian Aid Groups. Retrieved May 16, 2018.