3/22/24, 3:32 PM Persistence, Tactic TA0003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003/ 1/15Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Persistence, Tactic TA0003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003/ 2/15Home>Tactics>Enterprise>Persistence3/22/24, 3:32 PM Persistence, Tactic TA0003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003/ 3/15P e r s i s t e n c e
T e c h n i q u e s
Techniques: 20The adversary is trying to maintain their foothold.
Persistence consists of techniques that adversaries use to keep access to systems across restarts, changed credentials, and other
interruptions that could cut off their access. Techniques used for persistence include any access, action, or conﬁguration changes that let
them maintain their foothold on systems, such as replacing or hijacking legitimate code or adding startup code.
Version PermalinkID: TA0003
Created: 17 October 2018
Last Modiﬁed: 19 July 20193/22/24, 3:32 PM Persistence, Tactic TA0003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003/ 4/15ID Name Description
T1098 Account Manipulation Adversaries may manipulate accounts to maintain and/or elevate access to victim systems.
Account manipulation may consist of any action that preserves or modiﬁes adversary access to
a compromised account, such as modifying credentials or permission groups. These actions
could also include account activity designed to subvert security policies, such as performing
iterative password updates to bypass password duration policies and preserve the life of
compromised credentials.
.001 Additional Cloud
CredentialsAdversaries may add adversary-controlled credentials to a cloud account to maintain persistent
access to victim accounts and instances within the environment.
.002 Additional Email
Delegate PermissionsAdversaries may grant additional permission levels to maintain persistent access to an
adversary-controlled email account.
.003 Additional Cloud Roles An adversary may add additional roles or permissions to an adversary-controlled cloud account
to maintain persistent access to a tenant. For example, adversaries may update IAM policies in
cloud-based environments or add a new global administrator in Oﬃce 365 environments. With
suﬃcient permissions, a compromised account can gain almost unlimited access to data and
settings (including the ability to reset the passwords of other admins).
.004 SSH Authorized Keys Adversaries may modify the SSH authorized\_keys ﬁle to maintain persistence on a victim host.
Linux distributions and macOS commonly use key-based authentication to secure the
authentication process of SSH sessions for remote management. The authorized\_keys ﬁle in
SSH speciﬁes the SSH keys that can be used for logging into the user account for which the ﬁle
is conﬁgured. This ﬁle is usually found in the user's home directory under /.ssh/authorized\_keys . Users may edit the system’s SSH conﬁg ﬁle to modify the
directives PubkeyAuthentication and RSAAuthentication to the value "yes" to ensure public key
and RSA authentication are enabled. The SSH conﬁg ﬁle is usually located under
/etc/ssh/sshd\_config .
.005 Device Registration Adversaries may register a device to an adversary-controlled account. Devices may be registered
in a multifactor authentication (MFA) system, which handles authentication to the network, or in
a device management system, which handles device access and compliance.
.006 Additional Container
Cluster RolesAn adversary may add additional roles or permissions to an adversary-controlled user or service
account to maintain persistent access to a container orchestration system. For example, an
adversary with suﬃcient permissions may create a RoleBinding or a ClusterRoleBinding to bind a
Role or ClusterRole to a Kubernetes account. Where attribute-based access control (ABAC) is in
use, an adversary with suﬃcient permissions may modify a Kubernetes ABAC policy to give the
target account additional permissions.
T1197 BITS Jobs Adversaries may abuse BITS jobs to persistently execute code and perform various background
tasks. Windows Background Intelligent Transfer Service (BITS) is a low-bandwidth, asynchronous
ﬁle transfer mechanism exposed through Component Object Model (COM). BITS is commonly
used by updaters, messengers, and other applications preferred to operate in the background
(using available idle bandwidth) without interrupting other networked applications. File transfer
tasks are implemented as BITS jobs, which contain a queue of one or more ﬁle operations.
T1547 Boot or Logon
Autostart ExecutionAdversaries may conﬁgure system settings to automatically execute a program during system
boot or logon to maintain persistence or gain higher-level privileges on compromised systems.
Operating systems may have mechanisms for automatically running a program on system boot
or account logon. These mechanisms may include automatically executing programs that are
placed in specially designated directories or are referenced by repositories that store
conﬁguration information, such as the Windows Registry. An adversary may achieve the same
goal by modifying or extending features of the kernel.
.001 Registry Run Keys /
Startup FolderAdversaries may achieve persistence by adding a program to a startup folder or referencing it
with a Registry run key. Adding an entry to the "run keys" in the Registry or startup folder will
cause the program referenced to be executed when a user logs in. These programs will be
executed under the context of the user and will have the account's associated permissions level.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Persistence, Tactic TA0003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003/ 5/15ID Name Description
.002 Authentication
PackageAdversaries may abuse authentication packages to execute DLLs when the system boots.
Windows authentication package DLLs are loaded by the Local Security Authority (LSA) process
at system start. They provide support for multiple logon processes and multiple security
protocols to the operating system.
.003 Time Providers Adversaries may abuse time providers to execute DLLs when the system boots. The Windows
Time service (W32Time) enables time synchronization across and within domains. W32Time
time providers are responsible for retrieving time stamps from hardware/network resources and
outputting these values to other network clients.
.004 Winlogon Helper DLL Adversaries may abuse features of Winlogon to execute DLLs and/or executables when a user
logs in. Winlogon.exe is a Windows component responsible for actions at logon/logoff as well as
the secure attention sequence (SAS) triggered by Ctrl-Alt-Delete. Registry entries in
HKLM\Software[\Wow6432Node\]\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon\ and
HKCU\Software\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Winlogon\ are used to manage
additional helper programs and functionalities that support Winlogon.
.005 Security Support
ProviderAdversaries may abuse security support providers (SSPs) to execute DLLs when the system
boots. Windows SSP DLLs are loaded into the Local Security Authority (LSA) process at system
start. Once loaded into the LSA, SSP DLLs have access to encrypted and plaintext passwords
that are stored in Windows, such as any logged-on user's Domain password or smart card PINs.
.006 Kernel Modules and
ExtensionsAdversaries may modify the kernel to automatically execute programs on system boot. Loadable
Kernel Modules (LKMs) are pieces of code that can be loaded and unloaded into the kernel upon
demand. They extend the functionality of the kernel without the need to reboot the system. For
example, one type of module is the device driver, which allows the kernel to access hardware
connected to the system. 
.007 Re-opened
ApplicationsAdversaries may modify plist ﬁles to automatically run an application when a user logs in. When
a user logs out or restarts via the macOS Graphical User Interface (GUI), a prompt is provided to
the user with a checkbox to "Reopen windows when logging back in". When selected, all
applications currently open are added to a property list ﬁle named com.apple.loginwindow.
[UUID].plist within the ~/Library/Preferences/ByHost directory. Applications listed in this
ﬁle are automatically reopened upon the user’s next logon.
.008 LSASS Driver Adversaries may modify or add LSASS drivers to obtain persistence on compromised systems.
The Windows security subsystem is a set of components that manage and enforce the security
policy for a computer or domain. The Local Security Authority (LSA) is the main component
responsible for local security policy and user authentication. The LSA includes multiple dynamic
link libraries (DLLs) associated with various other security functions, all of which run in the
context of the LSA Subsystem Service (LSASS) lsass.exe process.
.009 Shortcut Modiﬁcation Adversaries may create or modify shortcuts that can execute a program during system boot or
user login. Shortcuts or symbolic links are used to reference other ﬁles or programs that will be
opened or executed when the shortcut is clicked or executed by a system startup process.
.010 Port Monitors Adversaries may use port monitors to run an adversary supplied DLL during system boot for
persistence or privilege escalation. A port monitor can be set through the AddMonitor API call to
set a DLL to be loaded at startup. This DLL can be located in C:\Windows\System32 and will be
loaded by the print spooler service, spoolsv.exe, on boot. The spoolsv.exe process also runs under
SYSTEM level permissions. Alternatively, an arbitrary DLL can be loaded if permissions allow
writing a fully-qualiﬁed pathname for that DLL to
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\Print\Monitors .
.012 Print Processors Adversaries may abuse print processors to run malicious DLLs during system boot for
persistence and/or privilege escalation. Print processors are DLLs that are loaded by the print
spooler service, spoolsv.exe , during boot.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Persistence, Tactic TA0003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003/ 6/15ID Name Description
.013 XDG Autostart Entries Adversaries may add or modify XDG Autostart Entries to execute malicious programs or
commands when a user’s desktop environment is loaded at login. XDG Autostart entries are
available for any XDG-compliant Linux system. XDG Autostart entries use Desktop Entry ﬁles
(.desktop ) to conﬁgure the user’s desktop environment upon user login. These conﬁguration
ﬁles determine what applications launch upon user login, deﬁne associated applications to open
speciﬁc ﬁle types, and deﬁne applications used to open removable media.
.014 Active Setup Adversaries may achieve persistence by adding a Registry key to the Active Setup of the local
machine. Active Setup is a Windows mechanism that is used to execute programs when a user
logs in. The value stored in the Registry key will be executed after a user logs into the computer.
These programs will be executed under the context of the user and will have the account's
associated permissions level.
.015 Login Items Adversaries may add login items to execute upon user login to gain persistence or escalate
privileges. Login items are applications, documents, folders, or server connections that are
automatically launched when a user logs in. Login items can be added via a shared ﬁle list or
Service Management Framework. Shared ﬁle list login items can be set using scripting languages
such as AppleScript, whereas the Service Management Framework uses the API call
SMLoginItemSetEnabled .
T1037 Boot or Logon
Initialization ScriptsAdversaries may use scripts automatically executed at boot or logon initialization to establish
persistence. Initialization scripts can be used to perform administrative functions, which may
often execute other programs or send information to an internal logging server. These scripts can
vary based on operating system and whether applied locally or remotely.
.001 Logon Script
(Windows)Adversaries may use Windows logon scripts automatically executed at logon initialization to
establish persistence. Windows allows logon scripts to be run whenever a speciﬁc user or group
of users log into a system. This is done via adding a path to a script to the
HKCU\Environment\UserInitMprLogonScript Registry key.
.002 Login Hook Adversaries may use a Login Hook to establish persistence executed upon user logon. A login
hook is a plist ﬁle that points to a speciﬁc script to execute with root privileges upon user logon.
The plist ﬁle is located in the /Library/Preferences/com.apple.loginwindow.plist ﬁle and
can be modiﬁed using the defaults command-line utility. This behavior is the same for logout
hooks where a script can be executed upon user logout. All hooks require administrator
permissions to modify or create hooks.
.003 Network Logon Script Adversaries may use network logon scripts automatically executed at logon initialization to
establish persistence. Network logon scripts can be assigned using Active Directory or Group
Policy Objects. These logon scripts run with the privileges of the user they are assigned to.
Depending on the systems within the network, initializing one of these scripts could apply to
more than one or potentially all systems.
.004 RC Scripts Adversaries may establish persistence by modifying RC scripts which are executed during a Unix-
like system’s startup. These ﬁles allow system administrators to map and start custom services
at startup for different run levels. RC scripts require root privileges to modify.
.005 Startup Items Adversaries may use startup items automatically executed at boot initialization to establish
persistence. Startup items execute during the ﬁnal phase of the boot process and contain shell
scripts or other executable ﬁles along with conﬁguration information used by the system to
determine the execution order for all startup items.
T1176 Browser Extensions Adversaries may abuse Internet browser extensions to establish persistent access to victim
systems. Browser extensions or plugins are small programs that can add functionality and
customize aspects of Internet browsers. They can be installed directly or through a browser's app
store and generally have access and permissions to everything that the browser can access.
T1554 Compromise Client
Software BinaryAdversaries may modify client software binaries to establish persistent access to systems. Client
software enables users to access services provided by a server. Common client software types
are SSH clients, FTP clients, email clients, and web browsers.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Persistence, Tactic TA0003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003/ 7/15ID Name Description
T1136 Create Account Adversaries may create an account to maintain access to victim systems. With a suﬃcient level
of access, creating such accounts may be used to establish secondary credentialed access that
do not require persistent remote access tools to be deployed on the system.
.001 Local Account Adversaries may create a local account to maintain access to victim systems. Local accounts are
those conﬁgured by an organization for use by users, remote support, services, or for
administration on a single system or service.
.002 Domain Account Adversaries may create a domain account to maintain access to victim systems. Domain
accounts are those managed by Active Directory Domain Services where access and permissions
are conﬁgured across systems and services that are part of that domain. Domain accounts can
cover user, administrator, and service accounts. With a suﬃcient level of access, the net user
/add /domain command can be used to create a domain account.
.003 Cloud Account Adversaries may create a cloud account to maintain access to victim systems. With a suﬃcient
level of access, such accounts may be used to establish secondary credentialed access that does
not require persistent remote access tools to be deployed on the system.
T1543 Create or Modify
System ProcessAdversaries may create or modify system-level processes to repeatedly execute malicious
payloads as part of persistence. When operating systems boot up, they can start processes that
perform background system functions. On Windows and Linux, these system processes are
referred to as services. On macOS, launchd processes known as Launch Daemon and Launch
Agent are run to ﬁnish system initialization and load user speciﬁc parameters.
.001 Launch Agent Adversaries may create or modify launch agents to repeatedly execute malicious payloads as
part of persistence. When a user logs in, a per-user launchd process is started which loads the
parameters for each launch-on-demand user agent from the property list (.plist) ﬁle found in
/System/Library/LaunchAgents , /Library/LaunchAgents , and ~/Library/LaunchAgents .
Property list ﬁles use the Label , ProgramArguments , and RunAtLoad keys to identify the
Launch Agent's name, executable location, and execution time. Launch Agents are often installed
to perform updates to programs, launch user speciﬁed programs at login, or to conduct other
developer tasks.
.002 Systemd Service Adversaries may create or modify systemd services to repeatedly execute malicious payloads as
part of persistence. Systemd is a system and service manager commonly used for managing
background daemon processes (also known as services) and other system resources. Systemd is
the default initialization (init) system on many Linux distributions replacing legacy init systems,
including SysVinit and Upstart, while remaining backwards compatible.
.003 Windows Service Adversaries may create or modify Windows services to repeatedly execute malicious payloads as
part of persistence. When Windows boots up, it starts programs or applications called services
that perform background system functions. Windows service conﬁguration information,
including the ﬁle path to the service's executable or recovery programs/commands, is stored in
the Windows Registry.
.004 Launch Daemon Adversaries may create or modify Launch Daemons to execute malicious payloads as part of
persistence. Launch Daemons are plist ﬁles used to interact with Launchd, the service
management framework used by macOS. Launch Daemons require elevated privileges to install,
are executed for every user on a system prior to login, and run in the background without the need
for user interaction. During the macOS initialization startup, the launchd process loads the
parameters for launch-on-demand system-level daemons from plist ﬁles found in
/System/Library/LaunchDaemons/ and /Library/LaunchDaemons/ . Required Launch
Daemons parameters include a Label to identify the task, Program to provide a path to the
executable, and RunAtLoad to specify when the task is run. Launch Daemons are often used to
provide access to shared resources, updates to software, or conduct automation tasks.
T1546 Event Triggered
ExecutionAdversaries may establish persistence and/or elevate privileges using system mechanisms that
trigger execution based on speciﬁc events. Various operating systems have means to monitor
and subscribe to events such as logons or other user activity such as running speciﬁc
applications/binaries. Cloud environments may also support various functions and services that
monitor and can be invoked in response to speciﬁc cloud events.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Persistence, Tactic TA0003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003/ 8/15ID Name Description
.001 Change Default File
AssociationAdversaries may establish persistence by executing malicious content triggered by a ﬁle type
association. When a ﬁle is opened, the default program used to open the ﬁle (also called the ﬁle
association or handler) is checked. File association selections are stored in the Windows Registry
and can be edited by users, administrators, or programs that have Registry access or by
administrators using the built-in assoc utility. Applications can modify the ﬁle association for a
given ﬁle extension to call an arbitrary program when a ﬁle with the given extension is opened.
.002 Screensaver Adversaries may establish persistence by executing malicious content triggered by user inactivity.
Screensavers are programs that execute after a conﬁgurable time of user inactivity and consist
of Portable Executable (PE) ﬁles with a .scr ﬁle extension. The Windows screensaver application
scrnsave.scr is located in C:\Windows\System32\ , and C:\Windows\sysWOW64\ on 64-bit
Windows systems, along with screensavers included with base Windows installations.
.003 Windows Management
Instrumentation Event
SubscriptionAdversaries may establish persistence and elevate privileges by executing malicious content
triggered by a Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI) event subscription. WMI can be
used to install event ﬁlters, providers, consumers, and bindings that execute code when a deﬁned
event occurs. Examples of events that may be subscribed to are the wall clock time, user loging,
or the computer's uptime.
.004 Unix Shell
Conﬁguration
ModiﬁcationAdversaries may establish persistence through executing malicious commands triggered by a
user’s shell. User Unix Shells execute several conﬁguration scripts at different points throughout
the session based on events. For example, when a user opens a command-line interface or
remotely logs in (such as via SSH) a login shell is initiated. The login shell executes scripts from
the system (/etc ) and the user’s home directory (~/) to conﬁgure the environment. All login
shells on a system use /etc/proﬁle when initiated. These conﬁguration scripts run at the
permission level of their directory and are often used to set environment variables, create aliases,
and customize the user’s environment. When the shell exits or terminates, additional shell scripts
are executed to ensure the shell exits appropriately.
.005 Trap Adversaries may establish persistence by executing malicious content triggered by an interrupt
signal. The trap command allows programs and shells to specify commands that will be
executed upon receiving interrupt signals. A common situation is a script allowing for graceful
termination and handling of common keyboard interrupts like ctrl+c and ctrl+d .
.006 LC\_LOAD\_DYLIB
AdditionAdversaries may establish persistence by executing malicious content triggered by the execution
of tainted binaries. Mach-O binaries have a series of headers that are used to perform certain
operations when a binary is loaded. The LC\_LOAD\_DYLIB header in a Mach-O binary tells macOS
and OS X which dynamic libraries (dylibs) to load during execution time. These can be added ad-
hoc to the compiled binary as long as adjustments are made to the rest of the ﬁelds and
dependencies. There are tools available to perform these changes.
.007 Netsh Helper DLL Adversaries may establish persistence by executing malicious content triggered by Netsh Helper
DLLs. Netsh.exe (also referred to as Netshell) is a command-line scripting utility used to interact
with the network conﬁguration of a system. It contains functionality to add helper DLLs for
extending functionality of the utility. The paths to registered netsh.exe helper DLLs are entered
into the Windows Registry at HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Netsh .
.008 Accessibility Features Adversaries may establish persistence and/or elevate privileges by executing malicious content
triggered by accessibility features. Windows contains accessibility features that may be launched
with a key combination before a user has logged in (ex: when the user is on the Windows logon
screen). An adversary can modify the way these programs are launched to get a command
prompt or backdoor without logging in to the system.
.009 AppCert DLLs Adversaries may establish persistence and/or elevate privileges by executing malicious content
triggered by AppCert DLLs loaded into processes. Dynamic-link libraries (DLLs) that are speciﬁed
in the AppCertDLLs Registry key under
HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\System\CurrentControlSet\Control\Session Manager\ are loaded
into every process that calls the ubiquitously used application programming interface (API)
functions CreateProcess , CreateProcessAsUser , CreateProcessWithLoginW ,
CreateProcessWithTokenW , or WinExec .3/22/24, 3:32 PM Persistence, Tactic TA0003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003/ 9/15ID Name Description
.010 AppInit DLLs Adversaries may establish persistence and/or elevate privileges by executing malicious content
triggered by AppInit DLLs loaded into processes. Dynamic-link libraries (DLLs) that are speciﬁed
in the AppInit\_DLLs value in the Registry keys
HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\Windows or
HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\Software\Wow6432Node\Microsoft\Windows
NT\CurrentVersion\Windows are loaded by user32.dll into every process that loads user32.dll.
In practice this is nearly every program, since user32.dll is a very common library.
.011 Application Shimming Adversaries may establish persistence and/or elevate privileges by executing malicious content
triggered by application shims. The Microsoft Windows Application Compatibility
Infrastructure/Framework (Application Shim) was created to allow for backward compatibility of
software as the operating system codebase changes over time. For example, the application
shimming feature allows developers to apply ﬁxes to applications (without rewriting code) that
were created for Windows XP so that it will work with Windows 10.
.012 Image File Execution
Options InjectionAdversaries may establish persistence and/or elevate privileges by executing malicious content
triggered by Image File Execution Options (IFEO) debuggers. IFEOs enable a developer to attach a
debugger to an application. When a process is created, a debugger present in an application’s
IFEO will be prepended to the application’s name, effectively launching the new process under the
debugger (e.g., C:\dbg\ntsd.exe -g notepad.exe ).
.013 PowerShell Proﬁle Adversaries may gain persistence and elevate privileges by executing malicious content triggered
by PowerShell proﬁles. A PowerShell proﬁle (profile.ps1 ) is a script that runs when PowerShell
starts and can be used as a logon script to customize user environments.
.014 Emond Adversaries may gain persistence and elevate privileges by executing malicious content triggered
by the Event Monitor Daemon (emond). Emond is a Launch Daemon that accepts events from
various services, runs them through a simple rules engine, and takes action. The emond binary at
/sbin/emond will load any rules from the /etc/emond.d/rules/ directory and take action once
an explicitly deﬁned event takes place.
.015 Component Object
Model HijackingAdversaries may establish persistence by executing malicious content triggered by hijacked
references to Component Object Model (COM) objects. COM is a system within Windows to
enable interaction between software components through the operating system. References to
various COM objects are stored in the Registry.
.016 Installer Packages Adversaries may establish persistence and elevate privileges by using an installer to trigger the
execution of malicious content. Installer packages are OS speciﬁc and contain the resources an
operating system needs to install applications on a system. Installer packages can include
scripts that run prior to installation as well as after installation is complete. Installer scripts may
inherit elevated permissions when executed. Developers often use these scripts to prepare the
environment for installation, check requirements, download dependencies, and remove ﬁles after
installation.
T1133 External Remote
ServicesAdversaries may leverage external-facing remote services to initially access and/or persist within
a network. Remote services such as VPNs, Citrix, and other access mechanisms allow users to
connect to internal enterprise network resources from external locations. There are often remote
service gateways that manage connections and credential authentication for these services.
Services such as Windows Remote Management and VNC can also be used externally.
T1574 Hijack Execution Flow Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the way operating systems
run programs. Hijacking execution ﬂow can be for the purposes of persistence, since this
hijacked execution may reoccur over time. Adversaries may also use these mechanisms to
elevate privileges or evade defenses, such as application control or other restrictions on
execution.
.001 DLL Search Order
HijackingAdversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the search order used to load
DLLs. Windows systems use a common method to look for required DLLs to load into a program.
Hijacking DLL loads may be for the purpose of establishing persistence as well as elevating
privileges and/or evading restrictions on ﬁle execution.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Persistence, Tactic TA0003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003/ 10/15ID Name Description
.002 DLL Side-Loading Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by side-loading DLLs. Similar to DLL
Search Order Hijacking, side-loading involves hijacking which DLL a program loads. But rather
than just planting the DLL within the search order of a program then waiting for the victim
application to be invoked, adversaries may directly side-load their payloads by planting then
invoking a legitimate application that executes their payload(s).
.004 Dylib Hijacking Adversaries may execute their own payloads by placing a malicious dynamic library (dylib) with
an expected name in a path a victim application searches at runtime. The dynamic loader will try
to ﬁnd the dylibs based on the sequential order of the search paths. Paths to dylibs may be
preﬁxed with @rpath , which allows developers to use relative paths to specify an array of search
paths used at runtime based on the location of the executable. Additionally, if weak linking is
used, such as the LC\_LOAD\_WEAK\_DYLIB function, an application will still execute even if an
expected dylib is not present. Weak linking enables developers to run an application on multiple
macOS versions as new APIs are added.
.005 Executable Installer
File Permissions
WeaknessAdversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the binaries used by an
installer. These processes may automatically execute speciﬁc binaries as part of their
functionality or to perform other actions. If the permissions on the ﬁle system directory
containing a target binary, or permissions on the binary itself, are improperly set, then the target
binary may be overwritten with another binary using user-level permissions and executed by the
original process. If the original process and thread are running under a higher permissions level,
then the replaced binary will also execute under higher-level permissions, which could include
SYSTEM.
.006 Dynamic Linker
HijackingAdversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking environment variables the
dynamic linker uses to load shared libraries. During the execution preparation phase of a
program, the dynamic linker loads speciﬁed absolute paths of shared libraries from environment
variables and ﬁles, such as LD\_PRELOAD on Linux or DYLD\_INSERT\_LIBRARIES on macOS.
Libraries speciﬁed in environment variables are loaded ﬁrst, taking precedence over system
libraries with the same function name. These variables are often used by developers to debug
binaries without needing to recompile, deconﬂict mapped symbols, and implement custom
functions without changing the original library.
.007 Path Interception by
PATH Environment
VariableAdversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking environment variables used
to load libraries. The PATH environment variable contains a list of directories (User and System)
that the OS searches sequentially through in search of the binary that was called from a script or
the command line.
.008 Path Interception by
Search Order HijackingAdversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the search order used to load
other programs. Because some programs do not call other programs using the full path,
adversaries may place their own ﬁle in the directory where the calling program is located, causing
the operating system to launch their malicious software at the request of the calling program.
.009 Path Interception by
Unquoted PathAdversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking vulnerable ﬁle path
references. Adversaries can take advantage of paths that lack surrounding quotations by placing
an executable in a higher level directory within the path, so that Windows will choose the
adversary's executable to launch.
.010 Services File
Permissions WeaknessAdversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the binaries used by
services. Adversaries may use ﬂaws in the permissions of Windows services to replace the binary
that is executed upon service start. These service processes may automatically execute speciﬁc
binaries as part of their functionality or to perform other actions. If the permissions on the ﬁle
system directory containing a target binary, or permissions on the binary itself are improperly set,
then the target binary may be overwritten with another binary using user-level permissions and
executed by the original process. If the original process and thread are running under a higher
permissions level, then the replaced binary will also execute under higher-level permissions,
which could include SYSTEM.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Persistence, Tactic TA0003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003/ 11/15ID Name Description
.011 Services Registry
Permissions WeaknessAdversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the Registry entries used by
services. Adversaries may use ﬂaws in the permissions for Registry keys related to services to
redirect from the originally speciﬁed executable to one that they control, in order to launch their
own code when a service starts. Windows stores local service conﬁguration information in the
Registry under HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services . The information stored under a
service's Registry keys can be manipulated to modify a service's execution parameters through
tools such as the service controller, sc.exe, PowerShell, or Reg. Access to Registry keys is
controlled through access control lists and user permissions.
.012 COR\_PROFILER Adversaries may leverage the COR\_PROFILER environment variable to hijack the execution ﬂow
of programs that load the .NET CLR. The COR\_PROFILER is a .NET Framework feature which
allows developers to specify an unmanaged (or external of .NET) proﬁling DLL to be loaded into
each .NET process that loads the Common Language Runtime (CLR). These proﬁlers are
designed to monitor, troubleshoot, and debug managed code executed by the .NET CLR.
.013 KernelCallbackTable Adversaries may abuse the KernelCallbackTable of a process to hijack its execution ﬂow in
order to run their own payloads. The KernelCallbackTable can be found in the Process
Environment Block (PEB) and is initialized to an array of graphic functions available to a GUI
process once user32.dll is loaded.
T1525 Implant Internal Image Adversaries may implant cloud or container images with malicious code to establish persistence
after gaining access to an environment. Amazon Web Services (AWS) Amazon Machine Images
(AMIs), Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Images, and Azure Images as well as popular container
runtimes such as Docker can be implanted or backdoored. Unlike Upload Malware, this technique
focuses on adversaries implanting an image in a registry within a victim’s environment.
Depending on how the infrastructure is provisioned, this could provide persistent access if the
infrastructure provisioning tool is instructed to always use the latest image.
T1556 Modify Authentication
ProcessAdversaries may modify authentication mechanisms and processes to access user credentials or
enable otherwise unwarranted access to accounts. The authentication process is handled by
mechanisms, such as the Local Security Authentication Server (LSASS) process and the Security
Accounts Manager (SAM) on Windows, pluggable authentication modules (PAM) on Unix-based
systems, and authorization plugins on MacOS systems, responsible for gathering, storing, and
validating credentials. By modifying an authentication process, an adversary may be able to
authenticate to a service or system without using Valid Accounts.
.001 Domain Controller
AuthenticationAdversaries may patch the authentication process on a domain controller to bypass the typical
authentication mechanisms and enable access to accounts.
.002 Password Filter DLL Adversaries may register malicious password ﬁlter dynamic link libraries (DLLs) into the
authentication process to acquire user credentials as they are validated.
.003 Pluggable
Authentication
ModulesAdversaries may modify pluggable authentication modules (PAM) to access user credentials or
enable otherwise unwarranted access to accounts. PAM is a modular system of conﬁguration
ﬁles, libraries, and executable ﬁles which guide authentication for many services. The most
common authentication module is pam\_unix.so , which retrieves, sets, and veriﬁes account
authentication information in /etc/passwd and /etc/shadow .
.004 Network Device
AuthenticationAdversaries may use Patch System Image to hard code a password in the operating system, thus
bypassing of native authentication mechanisms for local accounts on network devices.
.005 Reversible Encryption An adversary may abuse Active Directory authentication encryption properties to gain access to
credentials on Windows systems. The AllowReversiblePasswordEncryption property speciﬁes
whether reversible password encryption for an account is enabled or disabled. By default this
property is disabled (instead storing user credentials as the output of one-way hashing functions)
and should not be enabled unless legacy or other software require it.
.006 Multi-Factor
AuthenticationAdversaries may disable or modify multi-factor authentication (MFA) mechanisms to enable
persistent access to compromised accounts.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Persistence, Tactic TA0003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003/ 12/15ID Name Description
.007 Hybrid Identity Adversaries may patch, modify, or otherwise backdoor cloud authentication processes that are
tied to on-premises user identities in order to bypass typical authentication mechanisms, access
credentials, and enable persistent access to accounts.
.008 Network Provider DLL Adversaries may register malicious network provider dynamic link libraries (DLLs) to capture
cleartext user credentials during the authentication process. Network provider DLLs allow
Windows to interface with speciﬁc network protocols and can also support add-on credential
management functions. During the logon process, Winlogon (the interactive logon module) sends
credentials to the local mpnotify.exe process via RPC. The mpnotify.exe process then shares
the credentials in cleartext with registered credential managers when notifying that a logon event
is happening.
T1137 Oﬃce Application
StartupAdversaries may leverage Microsoft Oﬃce-based applications for persistence between startups.
Microsoft Oﬃce is a fairly common application suite on Windows-based operating systems
within an enterprise network. There are multiple mechanisms that can be used with Oﬃce for
persistence when an Oﬃce-based application is started; this can include the use of Oﬃce
Template Macros and add-ins.
.001 Oﬃce Template
MacrosAdversaries may abuse Microsoft Oﬃce templates to obtain persistence on a compromised
system. Microsoft Oﬃce contains templates that are part of common Oﬃce applications and are
used to customize styles. The base templates within the application are used each time an
application starts.
.002 Oﬃce Test Adversaries may abuse the Microsoft Oﬃce "Oﬃce Test" Registry key to obtain persistence on a
compromised system. An Oﬃce Test Registry location exists that allows a user to specify an
arbitrary DLL that will be executed every time an Oﬃce application is started. This Registry key is
thought to be used by Microsoft to load DLLs for testing and debugging purposes while
developing Oﬃce applications. This Registry key is not created by default during an Oﬃce
installation.
.003 Outlook Forms Adversaries may abuse Microsoft Outlook forms to obtain persistence on a compromised
system. Outlook forms are used as templates for presentation and functionality in Outlook
messages. Custom Outlook forms can be created that will execute code when a speciﬁcally
crafted email is sent by an adversary utilizing the same custom Outlook form.
.004 Outlook Home Page Adversaries may abuse Microsoft Outlook's Home Page feature to obtain persistence on a
compromised system. Outlook Home Page is a legacy feature used to customize the
presentation of Outlook folders. This feature allows for an internal or external URL to be loaded
and presented whenever a folder is opened. A malicious HTML page can be crafted that will
execute code when loaded by Outlook Home Page.
.005 Outlook Rules Adversaries may abuse Microsoft Outlook rules to obtain persistence on a compromised system.
Outlook rules allow a user to deﬁne automated behavior to manage email messages. A benign
rule might, for example, automatically move an email to a particular folder in Outlook if it
contains speciﬁc words from a speciﬁc sender. Malicious Outlook rules can be created that can
trigger code execution when an adversary sends a speciﬁcally crafted email to that user.
.006 Add-ins Adversaries may abuse Microsoft Oﬃce add-ins to obtain persistence on a compromised system.
Oﬃce add-ins can be used to add functionality to Oﬃce programs. There are different types of
add-ins that can be used by the various Oﬃce products; including Word/Excel add-in Libraries
(WLL/XLL), VBA add-ins, Oﬃce Component Object Model (COM) add-ins, automation add-ins,
VBA Editor (VBE), Visual Studio Tools for Oﬃce (VSTO) add-ins, and Outlook add-ins.
T1653 Power Settings Adversaries may impair a system's ability to hibernate, reboot, or shut down in order to extend
access to infected machines. When a computer enters a dormant state, some or all software and
hardware may cease to operate which can disrupt malicious activity.
T1542 Pre-OS Boot Adversaries may abuse Pre-OS Boot mechanisms as a way to establish persistence on a system.
During the booting process of a computer, ﬁrmware and various startup services are loaded
before the operating system. These programs control ﬂow of execution before the operating
system takes control.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Persistence, Tactic TA0003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003/ 13/15ID Name Description
.001 System Firmware Adversaries may modify system ﬁrmware to persist on systems.The BIOS (Basic Input/Output
System) and The Uniﬁed Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) or Extensible Firmware Interface
(EFI) are examples of system ﬁrmware that operate as the software interface between the
operating system and hardware of a computer.
.002 Component Firmware Adversaries may modify component ﬁrmware to persist on systems. Some adversaries may
employ sophisticated means to compromise computer components and install malicious
ﬁrmware that will execute adversary code outside of the operating system and main system
ﬁrmware or BIOS. This technique may be similar to System Firmware but conducted upon other
system components/devices that may not have the same capability or level of integrity checking.
.003 Bootkit Adversaries may use bootkits to persist on systems. Bootkits reside at a layer below the
operating system and may make it diﬃcult to perform full remediation unless an organization
suspects one was used and can act accordingly.
.004 ROMMONkit Adversaries may abuse the ROM Monitor (ROMMON) by loading an unauthorized ﬁrmware with
adversary code to provide persistent access and manipulate device behavior that is diﬃcult to
detect.
.005 TFTP Boot Adversaries may abuse netbooting to load an unauthorized network device operating system
from a Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP) server. TFTP boot (netbooting) is commonly used by
network administrators to load conﬁguration-controlled network device images from a
centralized management server. Netbooting is one option in the boot sequence and can be used
to centralize, manage, and control device images.
T1053 Scheduled Task/Job Adversaries may abuse task scheduling functionality to facilitate initial or recurring execution of
malicious code. Utilities exist within all major operating systems to schedule programs or scripts
to be executed at a speciﬁed date and time. A task can also be scheduled on a remote system,
provided the proper authentication is met (ex: RPC and ﬁle and printer sharing in Windows
environments). Scheduling a task on a remote system typically may require being a member of
an admin or otherwise privileged group on the remote system.
.002 At Adversaries may abuse the at utility to perform task scheduling for initial or recurring execution
of malicious code. The at utility exists as an executable within Windows, Linux, and macOS for
scheduling tasks at a speciﬁed time and date. Although deprecated in favor of Scheduled Task's
schtasks in Windows environments, using at requires that the Task Scheduler service be running,
and the user to be logged on as a member of the local Administrators group.
.003 Cron Adversaries may abuse the cron utility to perform task scheduling for initial or recurring
execution of malicious code. The cron utility is a time-based job scheduler for Unix-like
operating systems. The crontab ﬁle contains the schedule of cron entries to be run and the
speciﬁed times for execution. Any crontab ﬁles are stored in operating system-speciﬁc ﬁle
paths.
.005 Scheduled Task Adversaries may abuse the Windows Task Scheduler to perform task scheduling for initial or
recurring execution of malicious code. There are multiple ways to access the Task Scheduler in
Windows. The schtasks utility can be run directly on the command line, or the Task Scheduler
can be opened through the GUI within the Administrator Tools section of the Control Panel. In
some cases, adversaries have used a .NET wrapper for the Windows Task Scheduler, and
alternatively, adversaries have used the Windows netapi32 library to create a scheduled task.
.006 Systemd Timers Adversaries may abuse systemd timers to perform task scheduling for initial or recurring
execution of malicious code. Systemd timers are unit ﬁles with ﬁle extension .timer that control
services. Timers can be set to run on a calendar event or after a time span relative to a starting
point. They can be used as an alternative to Cron in Linux environments. Systemd timers may be
activated remotely via the systemctl command line utility, which operates over SSH.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Persistence, Tactic TA0003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003/ 14/15ID Name Description
.007 Container
Orchestration JobAdversaries may abuse task scheduling functionality provided by container orchestration tools
such as Kubernetes to schedule deployment of containers conﬁgured to execute malicious code.
Container orchestration jobs run these automated tasks at a speciﬁc date and time, similar to
cron jobs on a Linux system. Deployments of this type can also be conﬁgured to maintain a
quantity of containers over time, automating the process of maintaining persistence within a
cluster.
T1505 Server Software
ComponentAdversaries may abuse legitimate extensible development features of servers to establish
persistent access to systems. Enterprise server applications may include features that allow
developers to write and install software or scripts to extend the functionality of the main
application. Adversaries may install malicious components to extend and abuse server
applications.
.001 SQL Stored Procedures Adversaries may abuse SQL stored procedures to establish persistent access to systems. SQL
Stored Procedures are code that can be saved and reused so that database users do not waste
time rewriting frequently used SQL queries. Stored procedures can be invoked via SQL
statements to the database using the procedure name or via deﬁned events (e.g. when a SQL
server application is started/restarted).
.002 Transport Agent Adversaries may abuse Microsoft transport agents to establish persistent access to systems.
Microsoft Exchange transport agents can operate on email messages passing through the
transport pipeline to perform various tasks such as ﬁltering spam, ﬁltering malicious
attachments, journaling, or adding a corporate signature to the end of all outgoing emails.
Transport agents can be written by application developers and then compiled to .NET assemblies
that are subsequently registered with the Exchange server. Transport agents will be invoked
during a speciﬁed stage of email processing and carry out developer deﬁned tasks.
.003 Web Shell Adversaries may backdoor web servers with web shells to establish persistent access to systems.
A Web shell is a Web script that is placed on an openly accessible Web server to allow an
adversary to use the Web server as a gateway into a network. A Web shell may provide a set of
functions to execute or a command-line interface on the system that hosts the Web server.
.004 IIS Components Adversaries may install malicious components that run on Internet Information Services (IIS) web
servers to establish persistence. IIS provides several mechanisms to extend the functionality of
the web servers. For example, Internet Server Application Programming Interface (ISAPI)
extensions and ﬁlters can be installed to examine and/or modify incoming and outgoing IIS web
requests. Extensions and ﬁlters are deployed as DLL ﬁles that export three functions:
Get{Extension/Filter}Version , Http{Extension/Filter}Proc , and (optionally)
Terminate{Extension/Filter} . IIS modules may also be installed to extend IIS web servers.
.005 Terminal Services DLL Adversaries may abuse components of Terminal Services to enable persistent access to systems.
Microsoft Terminal Services, renamed to Remote Desktop Services in some Windows Server OSs
as of 2022, enable remote terminal connections to hosts. Terminal Services allows servers to
transmit a full, interactive, graphical user interface to clients via RDP.
T1205 Traﬃc Signaling Adversaries may use traﬃc signaling to hide open ports or other malicious functionality used for
persistence or command and control. Traﬃc signaling involves the use of a magic value or
sequence that must be sent to a system to trigger a special response, such as opening a closed
port or executing a malicious task. This may take the form of sending a series of packets with
certain characteristics before a port will be opened that the adversary can use for command and
control. Usually this series of packets consists of attempted connections to a predeﬁned
sequence of closed ports (i.e. Port Knocking), but can involve unusual ﬂags, speciﬁc strings, or
other unique characteristics. After the sequence is completed, opening a port may be
accomplished by the host-based ﬁrewall, but could also be implemented by custom software.
.001 Port Knocking Adversaries may use port knocking to hide open ports used for persistence or command and
control. To enable a port, an adversary sends a series of attempted connections to a predeﬁned
sequence of closed ports. After the sequence is completed, opening a port is often accomplished
by the host based ﬁrewall, but could also be implemented by custom software.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Persistence, Tactic TA0003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0003/ 15/15ID Name Description
.002 Socket Filters Adversaries may attach ﬁlters to a network socket to monitor then activate backdoors used for
persistence or command and control. With elevated permissions, adversaries can use features
such as the libpcap library to open sockets and install ﬁlters to allow or disallow certain types
of data to come through the socket. The ﬁlter may apply to all traﬃc passing through the
speciﬁed network interface (or every interface if not speciﬁed). When the network interface
receives a packet matching the ﬁlter criteria, additional actions can be triggered on the host, such
as activation of a reverse shell.
T1078 Valid Accounts Adversaries may obtain and abuse credentials of existing accounts as a means of gaining Initial
Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Compromised credentials may be
used to bypass access controls placed on various resources on systems within the network and
may even be used for persistent access to remote systems and externally available services, such
as VPNs, Outlook Web Access, network devices, and remote desktop. Compromised credentials
may also grant an adversary increased privilege to speciﬁc systems or access to restricted areas
of the network. Adversaries may choose not to use malware or tools in conjunction with the
legitimate access those credentials provide to make it harder to detect their presence.
.001 Default Accounts Adversaries may obtain and abuse credentials of a default account as a means of gaining Initial
Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Default accounts are those that are
built-into an OS, such as the Guest or Administrator accounts on Windows systems. Default
accounts also include default factory/provider set accounts on other types of systems, software,
or devices, including the root user account in AWS and the default service account in Kubernetes.
.002 Domain Accounts Adversaries may obtain and abuse credentials of a domain account as a means of gaining Initial
Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Domain accounts are those
managed by Active Directory Domain Services where access and permissions are conﬁgured
across systems and services that are part of that domain. Domain accounts can cover users,
administrators, and services.
.003 Local Accounts Adversaries may obtain and abuse credentials of a local account as a means of gaining Initial
Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Local accounts are those
conﬁgured by an organization for use by users, remote support, services, or for administration on
a single system or service.
.004 Cloud Accounts Valid accounts in cloud environments may allow adversaries to perform actions to achieve Initial
Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Cloud accounts are those created
and conﬁgured by an organization for use by users, remote support, services, or for
administration of resources within a cloud service provider or SaaS application. Cloud Accounts
can exist solely in the cloud or be hybrid joined between on-premises systems and the cloud
through federation with other identity sources such as Windows Active Directory.