3/22/24, 3:32 PM Impact, Tactic TA0040 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0040/ 1/6Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Impact, Tactic TA0040 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0040/ 2/6Home>Tactics>Enterprise>Impact3/22/24, 3:32 PM Impact, Tactic TA0040 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0040/ 3/6I m p a c t
T e c h n i q u e s
Techniques: 14The adversary is trying to manipulate, interrupt, or destroy your systems and data.
Impact consists of techniques that adversaries use to disrupt availability or compromise integrity by manipulating business and operational
processes. Techniques used for impact can include destroying or tampering with data. In some cases, business processes can look ﬁne, but
may have been altered to beneﬁt the adversaries’ goals. These techniques might be used by adversaries to follow through on their end goal
or to provide cover for a conﬁdentiality breach.
Version PermalinkID: TA0040
Created: 14 March 2019
Last Modiﬁed: 25 July 20193/22/24, 3:32 PM Impact, Tactic TA0040 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0040/ 4/6ID Name Description
T1531 Account Access
RemovalAdversaries may interrupt availability of system and network resources by inhibiting access to
accounts utilized by legitimate users. Accounts may be deleted, locked, or manipulated (ex: changed
credentials) to remove access to accounts. Adversaries may also subsequently log off and/or
perform a System Shutdown/Reboot to set malicious changes into place.
T1485 Data Destruction Adversaries may destroy data and ﬁles on speciﬁc systems or in large numbers on a network to
interrupt availability to systems, services, and network resources. Data destruction is likely to render
stored data irrecoverable by forensic techniques through overwriting ﬁles or data on local and
remote drives. Common operating system ﬁle deletion commands such as del and rm often only
remove pointers to ﬁles without wiping the contents of the ﬁles themselves, making the ﬁles
recoverable by proper forensic methodology. This behavior is distinct from Disk Content Wipe and
Disk Structure Wipe because individual ﬁles are destroyed rather than sections of a storage disk or
the disk's logical structure.
T1486 Data Encrypted for
ImpactAdversaries may encrypt data on target systems or on large numbers of systems in a network to
interrupt availability to system and network resources. They can attempt to render stored data
inaccessible by encrypting ﬁles or data on local and remote drives and withholding access to a
decryption key. This may be done in order to extract monetary compensation from a victim in
exchange for decryption or a decryption key (ransomware) or to render data permanently
inaccessible in cases where the key is not saved or transmitted.
T1565 Data Manipulation Adversaries may insert, delete, or manipulate data in order to inﬂuence external outcomes or hide
activity, thus threatening the integrity of the data. By manipulating data, adversaries may attempt to
affect a business process, organizational understanding, or decision making.
.001 Stored Data
ManipulationAdversaries may insert, delete, or manipulate data at rest in order to inﬂuence external outcomes or
hide activity, thus threatening the integrity of the data. By manipulating stored data, adversaries may
attempt to affect a business process, organizational understanding, and decision making.
.002 Transmitted Data
ManipulationAdversaries may alter data en route to storage or other systems in order to manipulate external
outcomes or hide activity, thus threatening the integrity of the data. By manipulating transmitted
data, adversaries may attempt to affect a business process, organizational understanding, and
decision making.
.003 Runtime Data
ManipulationAdversaries may modify systems in order to manipulate the data as it is accessed and displayed to
an end user, thus threatening the integrity of the data. By manipulating runtime data, adversaries
may attempt to affect a business process, organizational understanding, and decision making.
T1491 Defacement Adversaries may modify visual content available internally or externally to an enterprise network,
thus affecting the integrity of the original content. Reasons for Defacement include delivering
messaging, intimidation, or claiming (possibly false) credit for an intrusion. Disturbing or offensive
images may be used as a part of Defacement in order to cause user discomfort, or to pressure
compliance with accompanying messages.
.001 Internal
DefacementAn adversary may deface systems internal to an organization in an attempt to intimidate or mislead
users, thus discrediting the integrity of the systems. This may take the form of modiﬁcations to
internal websites, or directly to user systems with the replacement of the desktop wallpaper.
Disturbing or offensive images may be used as a part of Internal Defacement in order to cause user
discomfort, or to pressure compliance with accompanying messages. Since internally defacing
systems exposes an adversary's presence, it often takes place after other intrusion goals have been
accomplished.
.002 External
DefacementAn adversary may deface systems external to an organization in an attempt to deliver messaging,
intimidate, or otherwise mislead an organization or users. External Defacement may ultimately
cause users to distrust the systems and to question/discredit the system’s integrity. Externally-facing
websites are a common victim of defacement; often targeted by adversary and hacktivist groups in
order to push a political message or spread propaganda. External Defacement may be used as a
catalyst to trigger events, or as a response to actions taken by an organization or government.
Similarly, website defacement may also be used as setup, or a precursor, for future attacks such as
Drive-by Compromise.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Impact, Tactic TA0040 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0040/ 5/6ID Name Description
T1561 Disk Wipe Adversaries may wipe or corrupt raw disk data on speciﬁc systems or in large numbers in a network
to interrupt availability to system and network resources. With direct write access to a disk,
adversaries may attempt to overwrite portions of disk data. Adversaries may opt to wipe arbitrary
portions of disk data and/or wipe disk structures like the master boot record (MBR). A complete wipe
of all disk sectors may be attempted.
.001 Disk Content Wipe Adversaries may erase the contents of storage devices on speciﬁc systems or in large numbers in a
network to interrupt availability to system and network resources.
.002 Disk Structure Wipe Adversaries may corrupt or wipe the disk data structures on a hard drive necessary to boot a system;
targeting speciﬁc critical systems or in large numbers in a network to interrupt availability to system
and network resources.
T1499 Endpoint Denial of
ServiceAdversaries may perform Endpoint Denial of Service (DoS) attacks to degrade or block the
availability of services to users. Endpoint DoS can be performed by exhausting the system resources
those services are hosted on or exploiting the system to cause a persistent crash condition. Example
services include websites, email services, DNS, and web-based applications. Adversaries have been
observed conducting DoS attacks for political purposes and to support other malicious activities,
including distraction, hacktivism, and extortion.
.001 OS Exhaustion
FloodAdversaries may launch a denial of service (DoS) attack targeting an endpoint's operating system
(OS). A system's OS is responsible for managing the ﬁnite resources as well as preventing the entire
system from being overwhelmed by excessive demands on its capacity. These attacks do not need
to exhaust the actual resources on a system; the attacks may simply exhaust the limits and
available resources that an OS self-imposes.
.002 Service Exhaustion
FloodAdversaries may target the different network services provided by systems to conduct a denial of
service (DoS). Adversaries often target the availability of DNS and web services, however others
have been targeted as well. Web server software can be attacked through a variety of means, some
of which apply generally while others are speciﬁc to the software being used to provide the service.
.003 Application
Exhaustion FloodAdversaries may target resource intensive features of applications to cause a denial of service
(DoS), denying availability to those applications. For example, speciﬁc features in web applications
may be highly resource intensive. Repeated requests to those features may be able to exhaust
system resources and deny access to the application or the server itself.
.004 Application or
System ExploitationAdversaries may exploit software vulnerabilities that can cause an application or system to crash
and deny availability to users. Some systems may automatically restart critical applications and
services when crashes occur, but they can likely be re-exploited to cause a persistent denial of
service (DoS) condition.
T1657 Financial Theft Adversaries may steal monetary resources from targets through extortion, social engineering,
technical theft, or other methods aimed at their own ﬁnancial gain at the expense of the availability
of these resources for victims. Financial theft is the ultimate objective of several popular campaign
types including extortion by ransomware, business email compromise (BEC) and fraud, "pig
butchering," bank hacking, and exploiting cryptocurrency networks.
T1495 Firmware
CorruptionAdversaries may overwrite or corrupt the ﬂash memory contents of system BIOS or other ﬁrmware in
devices attached to a system in order to render them inoperable or unable to boot, thus denying the
availability to use the devices and/or the system. Firmware is software that is loaded and executed
from non-volatile memory on hardware devices in order to initialize and manage device functionality.
These devices may include the motherboard, hard drive, or video cards.
T1490 Inhibit System
RecoveryAdversaries may delete or remove built-in data and turn off services designed to aid in the recovery
of a corrupted system to prevent recovery. This may deny access to available backups and recovery
options.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Impact, Tactic TA0040 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0040/ 6/6ID Name Description
T1498 Network Denial of
ServiceAdversaries may perform Network Denial of Service (DoS) attacks to degrade or block the
availability of targeted resources to users. Network DoS can be performed by exhausting the network
bandwidth services rely on. Example resources include speciﬁc websites, email services, DNS, and
web-based applications. Adversaries have been observed conducting network DoS attacks for
political purposes and to support other malicious activities, including distraction, hacktivism, and
extortion.
.001 Direct Network
FloodAdversaries may attempt to cause a denial of service (DoS) by directly sending a high-volume of
network traﬃc to a target. This DoS attack may also reduce the availability and functionality of the
targeted system(s) and network. Direct Network Floods are when one or more systems are used to
send a high-volume of network packets towards the targeted service's network. Almost any network
protocol may be used for ﬂooding. Stateless protocols such as UDP or ICMP are commonly used but
stateful protocols such as TCP can be used as well.
.002 Reﬂection
AmpliﬁcationAdversaries may attempt to cause a denial of service (DoS) by reﬂecting a high-volume of network
traﬃc to a target. This type of Network DoS takes advantage of a third-party server intermediary that
hosts and will respond to a given spoofed source IP address. This third-party server is commonly
termed a reﬂector. An adversary accomplishes a reﬂection attack by sending packets to reﬂectors
with the spoofed address of the victim. Similar to Direct Network Floods, more than one system may
be used to conduct the attack, or a botnet may be used. Likewise, one or more reﬂectors may be used
to focus traﬃc on the target. This Network DoS attack may also reduce the availability and
functionality of the targeted system(s) and network.
T1496 Resource Hijacking Adversaries may leverage the resources of co-opted systems to complete resource-intensive tasks,
which may impact system and/or hosted service availability.
T1489 Service Stop Adversaries may stop or disable services on a system to render those services unavailable to
legitimate users. Stopping critical services or processes can inhibit or stop response to an incident or
aid in the adversary's overall objectives to cause damage to the environment.
T1529 System
Shutdown/RebootAdversaries may shutdown/reboot systems to interrupt access to, or aid in the destruction of, those
systems. Operating systems may contain commands to initiate a shutdown/reboot of a machine or
network device. In some cases, these commands may also be used to initiate a shutdown/reboot of
a remote computer or network device via Network Device CLI (e.g. reload ).