3/22/24, 3:42 PM Hide Artifacts, Technique T1564 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/ 1/5Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:42 PM Hide Artifacts, Technique T1564 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/ 2/5Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Hide Artifacts3/22/24, 3:42 PM Hide Artifacts, Technique T1564 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/ 3/5Hide Artifacts
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0482 Bundlore Bundlore uses the mktemp utility to make unique ﬁle and directory names for payloads, such as
TMP\_DIR=`mktemp -d -t x .
S1066 DarkTortilla DarkTortilla has used %HiddenReg% and %HiddenKey% as part of its persistence via the Windows registry.
S0402 OSX/Shlayer OSX/Shlayer has used the mktemp utility to make random and unique ﬁlenames for payloads, such as
export tmpDir="$(mktemp -d /tmp/XXXXXXXXXXXX)" or mktemp -t Installer .
S1011 Tarrask Tarrask is able to create "hidden" scheduled tasks by deleting the Security Descriptor (SD) registry value.
S0670 WarzoneRAT WarzoneRAT can masquerade the Process Environment Block on a compromised host to hide it's attempts to
elevate privileges through IFileOperation .
Mitigations
This type of attack technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on the abuse of system features.Adversaries may attempt to hide artifacts associated with their behaviors to evade detection. Operating systems may have features to hide
various artifacts, such as important system ﬁles and administrative task execution, to avoid disrupting user work environments and prevent
users from changing ﬁles or features on the system. Adversaries may abuse these features to hide artifacts such as ﬁles, directories, user
accounts, or other system activity to evade detection.
Adversaries may also attempt to hide artifacts associated with malicious behavior by creating computing regions that are isolated from
common security instrumentation, such as through the use of virtualization technology.Sub-techniques (11)
[1][2][3]
[4]
Version PermalinkID: T1564
Sub-techniques:  T1564.001, T1564.002, T1564.003, T1564.004, T1564.005, T1564.006, T1564.007, T1564.008, T1564.009,
T1564.010, T1564.011

Tactic: Defense Evasion

Platforms: Linux, Oﬃce 365, Windows, macOS
Version: 1.1
Created: 26 February 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 25 March 2022
[5]
[6]
[7][5][8]
[9]
[10]3/22/24, 3:42 PM Hide Artifacts, Technique T1564 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/ 4/5Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0015 Application Log Application Log
ContentMonitor for third-party application logging, messaging, and/or other artifacts that
may attempt to hide artifacts associated with their behaviors to evade detection.
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to hide artifacts
associated with their behaviors to evade detection.
DS0022 File File Creation Monitor for newly constructed ﬁles that may attempt to hide artifacts associated
with their behaviors to evade detection.
File Metadata Monitor for contextual data about a ﬁle, which may include information such as
name, the content (ex: signature, headers, or data/media), user/owner, permissions
that may attempt to hide artifacts associated with their behaviors to evade
detection.
File Modiﬁcation Monitor for changes made to ﬁles that may attempt to hide artifacts associated
with their behaviors to evade detection.
DS0001 Firmware Firmware
ModiﬁcationMonitor for changes made to ﬁrewall rules for unexpected modiﬁcations to
allow/block speciﬁc network traﬃc that may attempt to hide artifacts associated
with their behaviors to evade detection.
DS0009 Process OS API Execution Monitor for API calls that may attempt to hide artifacts associated with their
behaviors to evade detection.
Process Creation Monitor newly executed processes that may attempt to hide artifacts associated
with their behaviors to evade detection.
DS0012 Script Script Execution Monitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system would be
considered suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled,
scripts running out of cycle from patching or other administrator functions are
suspicious. Scripts should be captured from the ﬁle system when possible to
determine their actions and intent.
DS0019 Service Service Creation Monitor for newly constructed services/daemons that may attempt to hide artifacts
associated with their behaviors to evade detection.
DS0002 User Account User Account
CreationMonitor for newly constructed user accounts that may attempt to hide artifacts
associated with their behaviors to evade detection.
User Account
MetadataMonitor for contextual data about an account, which may include a username, user
ID, environmental data that may attempt to hide artifacts associated with their
behaviors to evade detection.
DS0024 Windows RegistryWindows Registry
Key ModiﬁcationMonitor for changes made to windows registry keys and/or values that may
attempt to hide artifacts associated with their behaviors to evade detection.3/22/24, 3:42 PM Hide Artifacts, Technique T1564 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/ 5/5References
1. Dani Creus, Tyler Halfpop, Robert Falcone. (2016, September
26). Sofacy's 'Komplex' OS X Trojan. Retrieved July 8, 2017.
2. Amit Serper. (2016). Cybereason Lab Analysis OSX.Pirrit.
Retrieved December 10, 2021.
3. Arntz, P. (2015, July 22). Introduction to Alternate Data
Streams. Retrieved March 21, 2018.
4. SophosLabs. (2020, May 21). Ragnar Locker ransomware
deploys virtual machine to dodge security. Retrieved June 29,
2020.
5. Phil Stokes. (2021, February 16). 20 Common Tools &
Techniques Used by macOS Threat Actors & Malware.
Retrieved August 23, 2021.. Secureworks Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2022,
August 17). DarkTortilla Malware Analysis. Retrieved
November 3, 2022.
7. Phil Stokes. (2020, September 8). Coming Out of Your Shell:
From Shlayer to ZShlayer. Retrieved September 13, 2021.
. Jaron Bradley. (2021, April 26). Shlayer malware abusing
Gatekeeper bypass on macOS. Retrieved September 22, 2021.
9. Microsoft Threat Intelligence Team & Detection and Response
Team . (2022, April 12). Tarrask malware uses scheduled
tasks for defense evasion. Retrieved June 1, 2022.
10. Harakhavik, Y. (2020, February 3). Warzone: Behind the enemy
lines. Retrieved December 17, 2021.