3/22/24, 3:52 PM Exﬁltration Over Web Service: Exﬁltration Over Webhook, Sub-technique T1567.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1567/004/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:52 PM Exﬁltration Over Web Service: Exﬁltration Over Webhook, Sub-technique T1567.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1567/004/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Exﬁltration Over Web Service>Exﬁltration Over Webhook3/22/24, 3:52 PM Exﬁltration Over Web Service: Exﬁltration Over Webhook, Sub-technique T1567.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1567/004/ 3/4Exﬁltration Over Web Service: Exﬁltration Over Webhook
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1057 Data Loss
PreventionData loss prevention can be detect and block sensitive data being uploaded to web services via web
browsers.Adversaries may exﬁltrate data to a webhook endpoint rather than over their primary command and control channel. Webhooks are simple
mechanisms for allowing a server to push data over HTTP/S to a client without the need for the client to continuously poll the server. Many
public and commercial services, such as Discord, Slack, and webhook.site , support the creation of webhook endpoints that can be used by
other services, such as Github, Jira, or Trello. When changes happen in the linked services (such as pushing a repository update or
modifying a ticket), these services will automatically post the data to the webhook endpoint for use by the consuming application.
Adversaries may link an adversary-owned environment to a victim-owned SaaS service to achieve repeated Automated Exﬁltration of emails,
chat messages, and other data. Alternatively, instead of linking the webhook endpoint to a service, an adversary can manually post staged
data directly to the URL in order to exﬁltrate it.
Access to webhook endpoints is often over HTTPS, which gives the adversary an additional level of protection. Exﬁltration leveraging
webhooks can also blend in with normal network traﬃc if the webhook endpoint points to a commonly used SaaS application or
collaboration service.Other sub-techniques of Exﬁltration Over Web Service (4)
[1]
[2]
[3]
[4]
[5][6][7]
Version PermalinkID: T1567.004
Sub-technique of:  T1567

Tactic: Exﬁltration

Platforms: Google Workspace, Linux, Oﬃce 365, SaaS, Windows, macOS
Contributors: Sunders Bruskin, Microsoft Threat Intelligence; Yossi Weizman, Microsoft Threat Intelligence
Version: 1.0
Created: 20 July 2023
Last Modiﬁed: 12 October 20233/22/24, 3:52 PM Exﬁltration Over Web Service: Exﬁltration Over Webhook, Sub-technique T1567.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1567/004/ 4/4Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0015 Application Log Application Log
ContentReview logs for SaaS services, including Oﬃce 365 and Google Workspace, to detect the
conﬁguration of new webhooks.
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that may exﬁltrate data to a webhook as a
malicious command and control channel. Additionally, monitor commands that may
create new webhook conﬁgurations in SaaS services - for example, gh webhook
forward in Github or mgc subscriptions create in Oﬃce 365.
DS0022 File File Access Monitor for ﬁles being accessed to exﬁltrate data to a webhook as a malicious
command and control channel.
DS0029 Network Traﬃc Network Traﬃc
ContentMonitor and analyze traﬃc patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that
do not follow the expected protocol standards and traﬃc ﬂows (e.g., extraneous packets
that do not belong to established ﬂows, gratuitous or anomalous traﬃc patterns,
anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and
command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments
associated to traﬃc patterns (e.g., monitor anomalies in use of ﬁles that do not normally
initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).
Network Traﬃc
FlowMonitor network data for uncommon data ﬂows. Processes utilizing the network that do
not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are
suspicious.
References[8][9]
1. RedHat. (2022, June 1). What is a webhook?. Retrieved July
20, 2023.
2. D. (n.d.). Intro to Webhooks. Retrieved July 20, 2023.
3. Push Security. (2023, July 31). Webhooks. Retrieved August 4,
2023.
4. Microsoft Threat Intelligence. (2023, October 3). Defending
new vectors: Threat actors attempt SQL Server to cloud lateral
movement. Retrieved October 3, 2023.
5. CyberArk Labs. (2023, April 13). The (Not so) Secret War on
Discord. Retrieved July 20, 2023.. Nick Biasini, Edmund Brumaghin, Chris Neal, and Paul
Eubanks. (2021, April 7).
https://blog.talosintelligence.com/collab-app-abuse/.
Retrieved July 20, 2023.
7. Jossef Harush Kadouri. (2022, March 7). Webhook Party —
Malicious packages caught exﬁltrating data via legit webhook
services. Retrieved July 20, 2023.
. Github. (n.d.). Receiving webhooks with the GitHub CLI.
Retrieved August 4, 2023.
9. Microsoft . (n.d.). Create subscription. Retrieved August 4,
2023.