3/22/24, 3:49 PM Permission Groups Discovery: Cloud Groups, Sub-technique T1069.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1069/003/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:49 PM Permission Groups Discovery: Cloud Groups, Sub-technique T1069.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1069/003/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Permission Groups Discovery>Cloud Groups3/22/24, 3:49 PM Permission Groups Discovery: Cloud Groups, Sub-technique T1069.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1069/003/ 3/4Permission Groups Discovery: Cloud Groups
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0677 AADInternals AADInternals can enumerate Azure AD groups.
C0027 C0027 During C0027, Scattered Spider accessed Azure AD to download bulk lists of group members and their Active
Directory attributes.
S1091 Pacu Pacu can enumerate IAM permissions.
S0684 ROADTools ROADTools can enumerate Azure AD groups.
Mitigations
This type of attack technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on the abuse of system features.Adversaries may attempt to ﬁnd cloud groups and permission settings. The knowledge of cloud permission groups can help adversaries
determine the particular roles of users and groups within an environment, as well as which users are associated with a particular group.
With authenticated access there are several tools that can be used to ﬁnd permissions groups. The Get-MsolRole PowerShell cmdlet can
be used to obtain roles and permissions groups for Exchange and Oﬃce 365 accounts .
Azure CLI (AZ CLI) and the Google Cloud Identity Provider API also provide interfaces to obtain permissions groups. The command az ad
user get-member-groups will list groups associated to a user account for Azure while the API endpoint GET
https://cloudidentity.googleapis.com/v1/groups lists group resources available to a user for Google. In AWS, the commands
ListRolePolicies and ListAttachedRolePolicies allow users to enumerate the policies attached to a role.
Adversaries may attempt to list ACLs for objects to determine the owner and other accounts with access to the object, for example, via the
AWS GetBucketAcl API . Using this information an adversary can target accounts with permissions to a given object or leverage accounts
they have already compromised to access the object.Other sub-techniques of Permission Groups Discovery (3)
[1][2]
[3][4][5]
[6]
[7]
Version PermalinkID: T1069.003
Sub-technique of:  T1069

Tactic: Discovery

Platforms: Azure AD, Google Workspace, IaaS, Oﬃce 365, SaaS
Contributors: Isif Ibrahima, Mandiant; Regina Elwell
Version: 1.4
Created: 21 February 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 21 March 2023
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]3/22/24, 3:49 PM Permission Groups Discovery: Cloud Groups, Sub-technique T1069.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1069/003/ 4/4Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0015 Application Log Application Log
ContentMonitor for events collected that may attempt to ﬁnd cloud groups and permission
settings.
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor for executed commands and arguments that may attempt to ﬁnd cloud
groups and permission settings.
DS0036 Group Group Enumeration Monitor for an extracted list of available groups and/or their associated setting
Group Metadata Contextual data about a group which describes group and activity around it that
may attempt to ﬁnd cloud groups and permission settings.
DS0009 Process Process Creation Monitor newly executed processes that may attempt to ﬁnd cloud groups and
permission settings.
References
1. Microsoft. (n.d.). Get-MsolRole. Retrieved October 6, 2019.
2. Stringer, M.. (2018, November 21). RainDance. Retrieved
October 6, 2019.
3. Microsoft. (n.d.). az ad user. Retrieved October 6, 2019.
4. Felch, M.. (2018, August 31). Red Teaming Microsoft Part 1
Active Directory Leaks via Azure. Retrieved October 6, 2019.
5. Google. (n.d.). Retrieved March 16, 2021.
. Dror Alon. (2022, December 8). Compromised Cloud Compute
Credentials: Case Studies From the Wild. Retrieved March 9,
2023.7. Amazon Web Services. (n.d.). Retrieved May 28, 2021.
. Dr. Nestori Syynimaa. (2018, October 25). AADInternals.
Retrieved February 18, 2022.
9. Parisi, T. (2022, December 2). Not a SIMulation: CrowdStrike
Investigations Reveal Intrusion Campaign Targeting Telco and
BPO Companies. Retrieved June 30, 2023.
10. Rhino Security Labs. (2019, August 22). Pacu. Retrieved
October 17, 2019.
11. Dirk-jan Mollema. (2020, April 16). Introducing ROADtools -
The Azure AD exploration framework. Retrieved January 31,
2022.