3/22/24, 3:51 PM Data Obfuscation: Protocol Impersonation, Sub-technique T1001.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1001/003/ 1/5Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:51 PM Data Obfuscation: Protocol Impersonation, Sub-technique T1001.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1001/003/ 2/5Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Data Obfuscation>Protocol Impersonation3/22/24, 3:51 PM Data Obfuscation: Protocol Impersonation, Sub-technique T1001.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1001/003/ 3/5Data Obfuscation: Protocol Impersonation
Adversaries may impersonate legitimate protocols or web service traﬃc to disguise command and control activity and thwart analysis
efforts. By impersonating legitimate protocols or web services, adversaries can make their command and control traﬃc blend in with
legitimate network traﬃc.
Adversaries may impersonate a fake SSL/TLS handshake to make it look like subsequent traﬃc is SSL/TLS encrypted, potentially
interfering with some security tooling, or to make the traﬃc look like it is related with a trusted entity.Other sub-techniques of Data Obfuscation (3)
Version PermalinkID: T1001.003
Sub-technique of:  T1001

Tactic: Command and Control

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS
Version: 1.0
Created: 15 March 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 15 March 20203/22/24, 3:51 PM Data Obfuscation: Protocol Impersonation, Sub-technique T1001.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1001/003/ 4/5Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0245 BADCALL BADCALL uses a FakeTLS method during C2.
S0239 Bankshot Bankshot generates a false TLS handshake using a public certiﬁcate to disguise C2 network
communications.
C0017 C0017 During C0017, APT41 frequently conﬁgured the URL endpoints of their stealthy passive backdoor
LOWKEY.PASSIVE to masquerade as normal web application traﬃc on an infected server.
S0154 Cobalt Strike Cobalt Strike can mimic the HTTP protocol for C2 communication, while hiding the actual data in either an
HTTP header, URI parameter, the transaction body, or appending it to the URI.
S0076 FakeM FakeM C2 traﬃc attempts to evade detection by resembling data generated by legitimate messenger
applications, such as MSN and Yahoo! messengers. Additionally, some variants of FakeM use modiﬁed
SSL code for communications back to C2 servers, making SSL decryption ineffective.
S0181 FALLCHILL FALLCHILL uses fake Transport Layer Security (TLS) to communicate with its C2 server.
S0246 HARDRAIN HARDRAIN uses FakeTLS to communicate with its C2 server.
G0126 Higaisa Higaisa used a FakeTLS session for C2 communications.
S0260 InvisiMole InvisiMole can mimic HTTP protocol with custom HTTP "verbs" HIDE, ZVVP, and NOP.
S0387 KeyBoy KeyBoy uses custom SSL libraries to impersonate SSL in C2 traﬃc.
G0032 Lazarus Group Lazarus Group malware also uses a unique form of communication encryption known as FakeTLS that
mimics TLS but uses a different encryption method, potentially evading SSL traﬃc inspection/decryption.
S0439 Okrum Okrum mimics HTTP protocol for C2 communication, while hiding the actual messages in the Cookie and
Set-Cookie headers of the HTTP requests.
S0559 SUNBURST SUNBURST masqueraded its network traﬃc as the Orion Improvement Program (OIP) protocol.
S0586 TAINTEDSCRIBE TAINTEDSCRIBE has used FakeTLS for session authentication.
S0022 Uroburos Uroburos can use custom communication methodologies that ride over common protocols including TCP,
UDP, HTTP, SMTP, and DNS in order to blend with normal network traﬃc. 
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1031 Network Intrusion
PreventionNetwork intrusion detection and prevention systems that use network signatures to identify traﬃc for
speciﬁc adversary malware can be used to mitigate some obfuscation activity at the network level.[1]
[2]
[3]
[4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]
[9][10]
[11]
[12][13][14][15]
[16]
[17]
[18]
[19]3/22/24, 3:51 PM Data Obfuscation: Protocol Impersonation, Sub-technique T1001.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1001/003/ 5/5Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0029 Network TraﬃcNetwork Traﬃc
ContentMonitor and analyze traﬃc patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s),
leveraging SSL/TLS inspection for encrypted traﬃc, that do not follow the expected
protocol standards and traﬃc ﬂows (e.g extraneous packets that do not belong to
established ﬂows, gratuitous or anomalous traﬃc patterns, anomalous syntax, or
structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and command line to detect
anomalous processes execution and command line arguments associated to traﬃc
patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of ﬁles that do not normally initiate connections
for respective protocol(s)).
References
1. US-CERT. (2018, February 06). Malware Analysis Report (MAR)
- 10135536-G. Retrieved June 7, 2018.
2. US-CERT. (2017, December 13). Malware Analysis Report
(MAR) - 10135536-B. Retrieved July 17, 2018.
3. Rufus Brown, Van Ta, Douglas Bienstock, Geoff Ackerman,
John Wolfram. (2022, March 8). Does This Look Infected? A
Summary of APT41 Targeting U.S. State Governments.
Retrieved July 8, 2022.
4. Strategic Cyber LLC. (2020, November 5). Cobalt Strike:
Advanced Threat Tactics for Penetration Testers. Retrieved
April 13, 2021.
5. Falcone, R. and Miller-Osborn, J.. (2016, January 24). Scarlet
Mimic: Years-Long Espionage Campaign Targets Minority
Activists. Retrieved February 10, 2016.
. US-CERT. (2017, November 22). Alert (TA17-318A): HIDDEN
COBRA – North Korean Remote Administration Tool:
FALLCHILL. Retrieved December 7, 2017.
7. US-CERT. (2018, February 05). Malware Analysis Report (MAR)
- 10135536-F. Retrieved June 11, 2018.
. Singh, S. Singh, A. (2020, June 11). The Return on the Higaisa
APT. Retrieved March 2, 2021.
9. Hromcová, Z. (2018, June 07). InvisiMole: Surprisingly
equipped spyware, undercover since 2013. Retrieved July 10,
2018.
10. Hromcova, Z. and Cherpanov, A. (2020, June). INVISIMOLE:
THE HIDDEN PART OF THE STORY. Retrieved July 16, 2020.11. Parys, B. (2017, February 11). The KeyBoys are back in town.
Retrieved June 13, 2019.
12. Novetta Threat Research Group. (2016, February 24).
Operation Blockbuster: Unraveling the Long Thread of the
Sony Attack. Retrieved February 25, 2016.
13. Novetta Threat Research Group. (2016, February 24).
Operation Blockbuster: Destructive Malware Report. Retrieved
March 2, 2016.
14. Sherstobitoff, R. (2018, February 12). Lazarus Resurfaces,
Targets Global Banks and Bitcoin Users. Retrieved February
19, 2018.
15. Sherstobitoff, R., Malhotra, A. (2018, April 24). Analyzing
Operation GhostSecret: Attack Seeks to Steal Data Worldwide.
Retrieved May 16, 2018.
1. Hromcova, Z. (2019, July). OKRUM AND KETRICAN: AN
OVERVIEW OF RECENT KE3CHANG GROUP ACTIVITY.
Retrieved May 6, 2020.
17. FireEye. (2020, December 13). Highly Evasive Attacker
Leverages SolarWinds Supply Chain to Compromise Multiple
Global Victims With SUNBURST Backdoor. Retrieved January
4, 2021.
1. USG. (2020, May 12). MAR-10288834-2.v1 – North Korean
Trojan: TAINTEDSCRIBE. Retrieved March 5, 2021.
19. FBI et al. (2023, May 9). Hunting Russian Intelligence “Snake”
Malware. Retrieved June 8, 2023.