3/22/24, 3:41 PM Server Software Component: Web Shell, Sub-technique T1505.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1505/003/ 1/8Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:41 PM Server Software Component: Web Shell, Sub-technique T1505.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1505/003/ 2/8Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Server Software Component>Web Shell3/22/24, 3:41 PM Server Software Component: Web Shell, Sub-technique T1505.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1505/003/ 3/8Server Software Component: Web Shell
Adversaries may backdoor web servers with web shells to establish persistent access to systems. A Web shell is a Web script that is placed
on an openly accessible Web server to allow an adversary to use the Web server as a gateway into a network. A Web shell may provide a set
of functions to execute or a command-line interface on the system that hosts the Web server.
In addition to a server-side script, a Web shell may have a client interface program that is used to talk to the Web server (e.g. China Chopper
Web shell client).Other sub-techniques of Server Software Component (5)
[1]
[2]
Version PermalinkID: T1505.003
Sub-technique of:  T1505

Tactic: Persistence

Platforms: Linux, Network, Windows, macOS

System Requirements: Adversary access to Web server with vulnerability or account to upload and serve the Web shell ﬁle.
Contributors: Arnim Rupp, Deutsche Lufthansa AG
Version: 1.3
Created: 13 December 2019
Last Modiﬁed: 30 March 20233/22/24, 3:41 PM Server Software Component: Web Shell, Sub-technique T1505.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1505/003/ 4/8Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0007 APT28 APT28 has used a modiﬁed and obfuscated version of the reGeorg web shell to maintain persistence
on a target's Outlook Web Access (OWA) server.
G0016 APT29 APT29 has installed web shells on exploited Microsoft Exchange servers.
G0050 APT32 APT32 has used Web shells to maintain access to victim websites.
G0082 APT38 APT38 has used web shells for persistence or to ensure redundant access.
G0087 APT39 APT39 has installed ANTAK and ASPXSPY web shells.
S0073 ASPXSpy ASPXSpy is a Web shell. The ASPXTool version used by Threat Group-3390 has been deployed to
accessible servers running Internet Information Services (IIS).
G0135 BackdoorDiplomacy BackdoorDiplomacy has used web shells to establish an initial foothold and for lateral movement
within a victim's system.
C0017 C0017 During C0017, APT41 deployed JScript web shells through the creation of malicious ViewState
objects.
S0020 China Chopper China Chopper's server component is a Web Shell payload.
G0009 Deep Panda Deep Panda uses Web shells on publicly accessible Web servers to access victim networks.
G0035 Dragonﬂy Dragonﬂy has commonly created Web shells on victims' publicly accessible email and web servers,
which they used to maintain access to a victim network and download additional malicious ﬁles.
G1016 FIN13 FIN13 has utilized obfuscated and open-source web shells such as JspSpy, reGeorg,
MiniWebCmdShell, and Vonloesch Jsp File Browser 1.2 to enable remote code execution and to
execute commands on compromised web server.
G0117 Fox Kitten Fox Kitten has installed web shells on compromised hosts to maintain access.
G0093 GALLIUM GALLIUM used Web shells to persist in victim environments and assist in execution and exﬁltration.
G0125 HAFNIUM HAFNIUM has deployed multiple web shells on compromised servers including SIMPLESEESHARP,
SPORTSBALL, China Chopper, and ASPXSpy.
G0094 Kimsuky Kimsuky has used modiﬁed versions of open source PHP web shells to maintain access, often adding
"Dinosaur" references within the code.
G0065 Leviathan Leviathan relies on web shells for an initial foothold as well as persistence into the victim's systems.
G0059 Magic Hound Magic Hound has used multiple web shells to gain execution.
G1009 Moses Staff Moses Staff has dropped a web shell onto a compromised system.
G0049 OilRig OilRig has used web shells, often to maintain access to a victim network.
C0012 Operation
CuckooBeesDuring Operation CuckooBees, the threat actors generated a web shell within a vulnerable Enterprise
Resource Planning Web Application Server as a persistence mechanism.
C0014 Operation Wocao During Operation Wocao, threat actors used their own web shells, as well as those previously placed
on target systems by other threat actors, for reconnaissance and lateral movement.[3]
[4][5]
[6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]
[2]
[12]
[13]
[14]
[15][16]
[17][18]
[19][20][21][22][23]
[24]
[25][26]
[27][28]
[29]
[30][31][32]
[33]
[34]3/22/24, 3:41 PM Server Software Component: Web Shell, Sub-technique T1505.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1505/003/ 5/8ID Name Description
S0072 OwaAuth OwaAuth is a Web shell that appears to be exclusively used by Threat Group-3390. It is installed as an
ISAPI ﬁlter on Exchange servers and shares characteristics with the China Chopper Web shell.
S0598 P.A.S. Webshell P.A.S. Webshell can gain remote access and execution on target web servers.
G0034 Sandworm Team Sandworm Team has used webshells including P.A.S. Webshell to maintain access to victim
networks.
S0185 SEASHARPEE SEASHARPEE is a Web shell.
S0578 SUPERNOVA SUPERNOVA is a Web shell.
G0088 TEMP.Veles TEMP.Veles has planted Web shells on Outlook Exchange servers.
G0027 Threat Group-3390 Threat Group-3390 has used a variety of Web shells.
G0131 Tonto Team Tonto Team has used a ﬁrst stage web shell after compromising a vulnerable Exchange server.
G0081 Tropic Trooper Tropic Trooper has started a web service in the target host and wait for the adversary to connect,
acting as a web shell.
G0123 Volatile Cedar Volatile Cedar can inject web shell code into a server.
G1017 Volt Typhoon Volt Typhoon has used webshells, including ones named AuditReport.jspx and iisstart.aspx, in
compromised environments.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1042 Disable or Remove Feature or
ProgramConsider disabling functions from web technologies such as PHP’s evaI() that may be
abused for web shells.
M1018 User Account Management Enforce the principle of least privilege by limiting privileges of user accounts so only
authorized accounts can modify the web directory.[9]
[35]
[35]
[31]
[36][37][38]
[39]
[40]
[41]
[42]
[43][44]
[45]
[46]
[47]3/22/24, 3:41 PM Server Software Component: Web Shell, Sub-technique T1505.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1505/003/ 6/8Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0015 Application Log Application Log
ContentMonitor for third-party application logging, messaging, and/or other artifacts that may
backdoor web servers with web shells to establish persistent access to systems. Log
authentication attempts to the server and any unusual traﬃc patterns to or from the
server and internal network. 
DS0022 File File Creation File monitoring may be used to detect changes to ﬁles in the Web directory of a Web
server that do not match with updates to the Web server's content and may indicate
implantation of a Web shell script.
File
ModiﬁcationMonitor for changes made to ﬁles that may backdoor web servers with web shells to
establish persistent access to systems.
DS0029 Network Traﬃc Network Traﬃc
ContentMonitor and analyze traﬃc patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that
do not follow the expected protocol standards and traﬃc ﬂows (e.g extraneous packets
that do not belong to established ﬂows, gratuitous or anomalous traﬃc patterns,
anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and
command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments
associated to traﬃc patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of ﬁles that do not normally
initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).
Network Traﬃc
FlowMonitor network data for uncommon data ﬂows. Processes utilizing the network that do
not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are
suspicious.
DS0009 Process Process
CreationWeb shells can be diﬃcult to detect. Unlike other forms of persistent remote access, they
do not initiate connections. The portion of the Web shell that is on the server may be
small and innocuous looking. The PHP version of the China Chopper Web shell, for
example, is very similar to the following short payload: 
php @evaI($\_P0ST['password']);
Nevertheless, detection mechanisms exist. Process monitoring may be used to detect
Web servers that perform suspicious actions such as spawning cmd.exe or accessing
ﬁles that are not in the Web directory.
A web shell is a web script placed on an openly accessible web server to allow an
adversary to use the server as a gatway in a network. As the shell operates, commands
will be issued from within the web application into the broader server operating system.
This analytic looks for host enumeration executables initiated by any web service that
would not normally be executed within that environment.
Analytic 1 - Webshell-Indicative Process Tree
suspicious\_processes = filter processes where ( (parent\_exe == "w3wp.exe"
OR parent\_exe == "httpd.exe" OR parent\_exe == "tomcat\*.exe" OR parent\_exe
== "nginx.exe" ) AND (exe == "cmd.exe" OR exe == "powershell.exe" OR exe
== "net.exe" OR exe == "whoami.exe" OR exe == "hostname.exe" OR exe ==
"systeminfo.exe" OR exe == "ipconfig.exe) )[48]
[49]
[2]
[49]3/22/24, 3:41 PM Server Software Component: Web Shell, Sub-technique T1505.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1505/003/ 7/8References
1. Adair, S., Lancaster, T., Volexity Threat Research. (2022, June
15). DriftingCloud: Zero-Day Sophos Firewall Exploitation and
an Insidious Breach. Retrieved July 1, 2022.
2. Lee, T., Hanzlik, D., Ahl, I. (2013, August 7). Breaking Down the
China Chopper Web Shell - Part I. Retrieved March 27, 2015.
3. NSA, CISA, FBI, NCSC. (2021, July). Russian GRU Conducting
Global Brute Force Campaign to Compromise Enterprise and
Cloud Environments. Retrieved July 26, 2021.
4. NCSC, CISA, FBI, NSA. (2021, May 7). Further TTPs associated
with SVR cyber actors. Retrieved July 29, 2021.
5. Mandiant. (2022, May 2). UNC3524: Eye Spy on Your Email.
Retrieved August 17, 2023.
. Lassalle, D., et al. (2017, November 6). OceanLotus Blossoms:
Mass Digital Surveillance and Attacks Targeting ASEAN, Asian
Nations, the Media, Human Rights Groups, and Civil Society.
Retrieved November 6, 2017.
7. DHS/CISA. (2020, August 26). FASTCash 2.0: North Korea's
BeagleBoyz Robbing Banks. Retrieved September 29, 2021.
. Hawley et al. (2019, January 29). APT39: An Iranian Cyber
Espionage Group Focused on Personal Information. Retrieved
February 19, 2019.
9. Dell SecureWorks Counter Threat Unit Threat Intelligence.
(2015, August 5). Threat Group-3390 Targets Organizations
for Cyberespionage. Retrieved August 18, 2018.
10. Adam Burgher. (2021, June 10). BackdoorDiplomacy:
Upgrading from Quarian to Turian. Retrieved September 1,
2021
11. Rufus Brown, Van Ta, Douglas Bienstock, Geoff Ackerman,
John Wolfram. (2022, March 8). Does This Look Infected? A
Summary of APT41 Targeting U.S. State Governments.
Retrieved July 8, 2022.
12. RYANJ. (2014, February 20). Mo’ Shells Mo’ Problems – Deep
Panda Web Shells. Retrieved September 16, 2015.
13. US-CERT. (2018, March 16). Alert (TA18-074A): Russian
Government Cyber Activity Targeting Energy and Other Critical
Infrastructure Sectors. Retrieved June 6, 2018.
14. Sygnia Incident Response Team. (2022, January 5). TG2003:
ELEPHANT BEETLE UNCOVERING AN ORGANIZED
FINANCIAL-THEFT OPERATION. Retrieved February 9, 2023.
15. CISA. (2020, September 15). Iran-Based Threat Actor Exploits
VPN Vulnerabilities. Retrieved December 21, 2020.
1. ClearSky. (2020, December 17). Pay2Key Ransomware – A
New Campaign by Fox Kitten. Retrieved December 21, 2020.
17. Cybereason Nocturnus. (2019, June 25). Operation Soft Cell: A
Worldwide Campaign Against Telecommunications Providers.
Retrieved July 18, 2019.
1. MSTIC. (2019, December 12). GALLIUM: Targeting global
telecom. Retrieved January 13, 2021.
19. MSTIC. (2021, March 2). HAFNIUM targeting Exchange
Servers with 0-day exploits. Retrieved March 3, 2021.
20. Gruzweig, J. et al. (2021, March 2). Operation Exchange
Marauder: Active Exploitation of Multiple Zero-Day Microsoft
Exchange Vulnerabilities. Retrieved March 3, 2021.
21. Bromiley, M. et al. (2021, March 4). Detection and Response to
Exploitation of Microsoft Exchange Zero-Day Vulnerabilities.
Retrieved March 9, 2021.
22. Microsoft Threat Intelligence Team & Detection and Response
Team . (2022, April 12). Tarrask malware uses scheduled
tasks for defense evasion. Retrieved June 1, 2022.2. CISA. (2021, July 19). (AA21-200A) Joint Cybersecurity
Advisory – Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures of Indicted
APT40 Actors Associated with China’s MSS Hainan State
Security Department. Retrieved August 12, 2021.
27. DFIR Report. (2022, March 21). APT35 Automates Initial
Access Using ProxyShell. Retrieved May 25, 2022.
2. DFIR Report. (2021, November 15). Exchange Exploit Leads to
Domain Wide Ransomware. Retrieved January 5, 2023.
29. Checkpoint Research. (2021, November 15). Uncovering
MosesStaff techniques: Ideology over Money. Retrieved
August 11, 2022.
30. Unit42. (2016, May 1). Evasive Serpens Unit 42 Playbook
Viewer. Retrieved February 6, 2023.
31. Davis, S. and Caban, D. (2017, December 19). APT34 - New
Targeted Attack in the Middle East. Retrieved December 20,
2017.
32. Crowdstrike. (2020, March 2). 2020 Global Threat Report.
Retrieved December 11, 2020.
33. Cybereason Nocturnus. (2022, May 4). Operation CuckooBees:
Deep-Dive into Stealthy Winnti Techniques. Retrieved
September 22, 2022.
34. Dantzig, M. v., Schamper, E. (2019, December 19). Operation
Wocao: Shining a light on one of China’s hidden hacking
groups. Retrieved October 8, 2020.
35. ANSSI. (2021, January 27). SANDWORM INTRUSION SET
CAMPAIGN TARGETING CENTREON SYSTEMS. Retrieved
March 30, 2021.
3. Tennis, M. (2020, December 17). SUPERNOVA: A Novel .NET
Webshell. Retrieved February 22, 2021.
37. Riley, W. (2020, December 1). SUPERNOVA SolarWinds .NET
Webshell Analysis. Retrieved February 18, 2021.
3. CISA. (2021, January 27). Malware Analysis Report (AR21-
027A). Retrieved February 22, 2021.
39. Miller, S, et al. (2019, April 10). TRITON Actor TTP Proﬁle,
Custom Attack Tools, Detections, and ATT&CK Mapping.
Retrieved April 16, 2019.
40. Falcone, R. and Lancaster, T. (2019, May 28). Emissary Panda
Attacks Middle East Government Sharepoint Servers.
Retrieved July 9, 2019.
41. Faou, M., Tartare, M., Dupuy, T. (2021, March 10). Exchange
servers under siege from at least 10 APT groups. Retrieved
May 21, 2021.
42. Chen, J.. (2020, May 12). Tropic Trooper’s Back: USBferry
Attack Targets Air gapped Environments. Retrieved May 20,
2020.
43. Threat Intelligence and Research. (2015, March 30). VOLATILE
CEDAR. Retrieved February 8, 2021.
44. ClearSky Cyber Security. (2021, January). “Lebanese Cedar”
APT Global Lebanese Espionage Campaign Leveraging Web
Servers. Retrieved February 10, 2021.
45. Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2023, May 24). Chinese
Cyberespionage Group BRONZE SILHOUETTE Targets U.S.
Government and Defense Organizations. Retrieved July 27,
2023.
4. Kondratiev, A. (n.d.). Disabling dangerous PHP functions.
Retrieved July 26, 2021.
47. NSA and ASD. (2020, April 3). Detect and Prevent Web Shell
Malware. Retrieved July 23, 2021.3/22/24, 3:41 PM Server Software Component: Web Shell, Sub-technique T1505.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1505/003/ 8/823. Eoin Miller. (2021, March 23). Defending Against the Zero Day:
Analyzing Attacker Behavior Post-Exploitation of Microsoft
Exchange. Retrieved October 27, 2022.
24. CISA, FBI, CNMF. (2020, October 27). https://us-
cert.cisa.gov/ncas/alerts/aa20-301a. Retrieved November 4,
2020.
25. Plan, F., et al. (2019, March 4). APT40: Examining a China-
Nexus Espionage Actor. Retrieved March 18, 2019.4. US-CERT. (2015, November 13). Compromised Web Servers
and Web Shells - Threat Awareness and Guidance. Retrieved
June 8, 2016.
49. NSA Cybersecurity Directorate. (n.d.). Mitigating Web Shells.
Retrieved July 22, 2021.