3/22/24, 3:52 PM Exﬁltration Over Alternative Protocol: Exﬁltration Over Symmetric Encrypted Non-C2 Protocol, Sub-technique T1048.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1048/001/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:52 PM Exﬁltration Over Alternative Protocol: Exﬁltration Over Symmetric Encrypted Non-C2 Protocol, Sub-technique T1048.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1048/001/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Exﬁltration Over Alternative Protocol>Exﬁltration Over Symmetric Encrypted Non-C2 Protocol3/22/24, 3:52 PM Exﬁltration Over Alternative Protocol: Exﬁltration Over Symmetric Encrypted Non-C2 Protocol, Sub-technique T1048.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1048/001/ 3/4Exﬁltration Over Alternative Protocol: Exﬁltration Over
Symmetric Encrypted Non-C2 Protocol
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1037 Filter Network
TraﬃcEnforce proxies and use dedicated servers for services such as DNS and only allow those systems to
communicate over respective ports/protocols, instead of all systems within a network.
M1031 Network Intrusion
PreventionNetwork intrusion detection and prevention systems that use network signatures to identify traﬃc for
speciﬁc adversary command and control infrastructure and malware can be used to mitigate activity
at the network level.
M1030 Network
SegmentationFollow best practices for network ﬁrewall conﬁgurations to allow only necessary ports and traﬃc to
enter and exit the network.Adversaries may steal data by exﬁltrating it over a symmetrically encrypted network protocol other than that of the existing command and
control channel. The data may also be sent to an alternate network location from the main command and control server.
Symmetric encryption algorithms are those that use shared or the same keys/secrets on each end of the channel. This requires an exchange
or pre-arranged agreement/possession of the value used to encrypt and decrypt data.
Network protocols that use asymmetric encryption often utilize symmetric encryption once keys are exchanged, but adversaries may opt to
manually share keys and implement symmetric cryptographic algorithms (ex: RC4, AES) vice using mechanisms that are baked into a
protocol. This may result in multiple layers of encryption (in protocols that are natively encrypted such as HTTPS) or encryption in protocols
that not typically encrypted (such as HTTP or FTP).Other sub-techniques of Exﬁltration Over Alternative Protocol (3)
Version PermalinkID: T1048.001
Sub-technique of:  T1048

Tactic: Exﬁltration

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS
Version: 1.0
Created: 15 March 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 28 March 2020
[1]3/22/24, 3:52 PM Exﬁltration Over Alternative Protocol: Exﬁltration Over Symmetric Encrypted Non-C2 Protocol, Sub-technique T1048.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1048/001/ 4/4Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that may steal data by exﬁltrating it over a
symmetrically encrypted network protocol other than that of the existing command and
control channel.
DS0022 File File Access Monitor for ﬁles viewed in isolation that may steal data by exﬁltrating it over a
symmetrically encrypted network protocol other than that of the existing command and
control channel.
DS0029 Network TraﬃcNetwork
Connection
CreationMonitor for newly constructed network connections that are sent or received by
untrusted hosts.
Network Traﬃc
ContentMonitor and analyze traﬃc patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that
do not follow the expected protocol standards and traﬃc ﬂows (e.g extraneous packets
that do not belong to established ﬂows, gratuitous or anomalous traﬃc patterns,
anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and
command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments
associated to traﬃc patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of ﬁles that do not normally
initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).
Network Traﬃc
FlowMonitor network data for uncommon data ﬂows. Processes utilizing the network that do
not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are
suspicious.
References
1. Microsoft. (2004, February 6). Perimeter Firewall Design.
Retrieved April 25, 2016.