3/22/24, 3:40 PM Hijack Execution Flow: Executable Installer File Permissions Weakness, Sub-technique T1574.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1574/005/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:40 PM Hijack Execution Flow: Executable Installer File Permissions Weakness, Sub-technique T1574.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1574/005/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Hijack Execution Flow>Executable Installer File Permissions Weakness3/22/24, 3:40 PM Hijack Execution Flow: Executable Installer File Permissions Weakness, Sub-technique T1574.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1574/005/ 3/4Hijack Execution Flow: Executable Installer File
Permissions Weakness
Adversaries may execute their own malicious payloads by hijacking the binaries used by an installer. These processes may automatically
execute speciﬁc binaries as part of their functionality or to perform other actions. If the permissions on the ﬁle system directory containing a
target binary, or permissions on the binary itself, are improperly set, then the target binary may be overwritten with another binary using user-
level permissions and executed by the original process. If the original process and thread are running under a higher permissions level, then
the replaced binary will also execute under higher-level permissions, which could include SYSTEM.
Another variation of this technique can be performed by taking advantage of a weakness that is common in executable, self-extracting
installers. During the installation process, it is common for installers to use a subdirectory within the %TEMP% directory to unpack binaries
such as DLLs, EXEs, or other payloads. When installers create subdirectories and ﬁles they often do not set appropriate permissions to
restrict write access, which allows for execution of untrusted code placed in the subdirectories or overwriting of binaries used in the
installation process. This behavior is related to and may take advantage of DLL Search Order Hijacking.
Adversaries may use this technique to replace legitimate binaries with malicious ones as a means of executing code at a higher permissions
level. Some installers may also require elevated privileges that will result in privilege escalation when executing adversary controlled code.
This behavior is related to Bypass User Account Control. Several examples of this weakness in existing common installers have been
reported to software vendors. If the executing process is set to run at a speciﬁc time or during a certain event (e.g., system bootup) then
this technique can also be used for persistence.Other sub-techniques of Hijack Execution Flow (12)
[1][2]
Version PermalinkID: T1574.005
Sub-technique of:  T1574

Tactics: Persistence, Privilege Escalation, Defense Evasion

Platforms: Windows

Permissions Required: Administrator, User

Effective Permissions: Administrator, SYSTEM, User
Contributors: Stefan Kanthak; Travis Smith, Tripwire
Version: 1.0
Created: 13 March 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 26 March 20203/22/24, 3:40 PM Hijack Execution Flow: Executable Installer File Permissions Weakness, Sub-technique T1574.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1574/005/ 4/4Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1047 Audit Use auditing tools capable of detecting ﬁle system permissions abuse opportunities on systems within an
enterprise and correct them. Toolkits like the PowerSploit framework contain PowerUp modules that can be
used to explore systems for service ﬁle system permissions weaknesses.
M1052 User Account
ControlTurn off UAC's privilege elevation for standard users
[HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\System] to
automatically deny elevation requests, add: "ConsentPromptBehaviorUser"=dword:00000000 . Consider
enabling installer detection for all users by adding: "EnableInstallerDetection"=dword:00000001 . This
will prompt for a password for installation and also log the attempt. To disable installer detection, instead
add: "EnableInstallerDetection"=dword:00000000 . This may prevent potential elevation of privileges
through exploitation during the process of UAC detecting the installer, but will allow the installation process
to continue without being logged. 
M1018 User Account
ManagementLimit privileges of user accounts and groups so that only authorized administrators can interact with
service changes and service binary target path locations. Deny execution from user directories such as ﬁle
download directories and temp directories where able.
Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0022 File File Creation Monitor for newly constructed ﬁles to match an existing service executable, it could be
detected and correlated with other suspicious behavior.
File
ModiﬁcationMonitor for changes to binaries and service executables that may normally occur during
software updates.
DS0011 Module Module Load Monitor DLL/PE ﬁle events, speciﬁcally creation of these binary ﬁles as well as the loading of
DLLs into processes. Look for DLLs that are not recognized or not normally loaded into a
process.
DS0009 Process Process
CreationMonitor for newly constructed processes to match an existing service executables.
DS0019 Service Service
MetadataMonitor for abnormal process call trees from typical processes and services and for execution
of other commands that could relate to Discovery or other adversary techniques.
References[3]
[2]
1. Robert Kugler. (2012, November 20). Mozilla Foundation
Security Advisory 2012-98. Retrieved March 10, 2017.
2. Stefan Kanthak. (2015, December 8). Executable installers are
vulnerable^WEVIL (case 7): 7z\*.exe allows remote code
execution with escalation of privilege. Retrieved December 4,
2014.3. PowerSploit. (n.d.). Retrieved December 4, 2014.