3/22/24, 3:44 PM Modify System Image: Downgrade System Image, Sub-technique T1601.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1601/002/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:44 PM Modify System Image: Downgrade System Image, Sub-technique T1601.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1601/002/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Modify System Image>Downgrade System Image3/22/24, 3:44 PM Modify System Image: Downgrade System Image, Sub-technique T1601.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1601/002/ 3/4Modify System Image: Downgrade System Image
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1046 Boot Integrity Some vendors of embedded network devices provide cryptographic signing to ensure the integrity of
operating system images at boot time. Implement where available, following vendor guidelines. 
M1045 Code Signing Many vendors provide digitally signed operating system images to validate the integrity of the
software used on their platform. Make use of this feature where possible in order to prevent and/or
detect attempts by adversaries to compromise the system image. 
M1043 Credential Access
ProtectionSome embedded network devices are capable of storing passwords for local accounts in either plain-
text or encrypted formats. Ensure that, where available, local passwords are always encrypted, per
vendor recommendations. 
M1032 Multi-factor
AuthenticationUse multi-factor authentication for user and privileged accounts. Most embedded network devices
support TACACS+ and/or RADIUS. Follow vendor prescribed best practices for hardening access
control.
M1027 Password Policies Refer to NIST guidelines when creating password policies. 
M1026 Privileged Account
ManagementRestrict administrator accounts to as few individuals as possible, following least privilege principles.
Prevent credential overlap across systems of administrator and privileged accounts, particularly
between network and non-network platforms, such as servers or endpoints.Adversaries may install an older version of the operating system of a network device to weaken security. Older operating system versions on
network devices often have weaker encryption ciphers and, in general, fewer/less updated defensive features. 
On embedded devices, downgrading the version typically only requires replacing the operating system ﬁle in storage. With most embedded
devices, this can be achieved by downloading a copy of the desired version of the operating system ﬁle and reconﬁguring the device to boot
from that ﬁle on next system restart. The adversary could then restart the device to implement the change immediately or they could wait
until the next time the system restarts.
Downgrading the system image to an older versions may allow an adversary to evade defenses by enabling behaviors such as Weaken
Encryption. Downgrading of a system image can be done on its own, or it can be used in conjunction with Patch System Image.Other sub-techniques of Modify System Image (2)
[1]
Version PermalinkID: T1601.002
Sub-technique of:  T1601

Tactic: Defense Evasion

Platforms: Network

Permissions Required: Administrator
Version: 1.0
Created: 19 October 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 22 October 2020
[2]
[3]
[4]
[5]
[6]3/22/24, 3:44 PM Modify System Image: Downgrade System Image, Sub-technique T1601.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1601/002/ 4/4Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0022 File File
ModiﬁcationMonitor for changes made to the operating system of a network device because image
downgrade may be used in conjunction with  Patch System Image, it may be appropriate to
also verify the integrity of the vendor provided operating system image ﬁle.
References
1. Graham Holmes. (2015, October 8). Evolution of attacks on
Cisco IOS devices. Retrieved October 19, 2020.
2. Cisco. (n.d.). Cisco IOS Software Integrity Assurance - Secure
Boot. Retrieved October 19, 2020.
3. Cisco. (n.d.). Cisco IOS Software Integrity Assurance - Deploy
Signed IOS. Retrieved October 21, 2020.4. Cisco. (n.d.). Cisco IOS Software Integrity Assurance -
Credentials Management. Retrieved October 19, 2020.
5. Cisco. (n.d.). Cisco IOS Software Integrity Assurance -
TACACS. Retrieved October 19, 2020.
. Grassi, P., et al. (2017, December 1). SP 800-63-3, Digital
Identity Guidelines. Retrieved January 16, 2019.