3/22/24, 3:39 PM Event Triggered Execution: Installer Packages, Sub-technique T1546.016 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1546/016/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:39 PM Event Triggered Execution: Installer Packages, Sub-technique T1546.016 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1546/016/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Event Triggered Execution>Installer Packages3/22/24, 3:39 PM Event Triggered Execution: Installer Packages, Sub-technique T1546.016 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1546/016/ 3/4Event Triggered Execution: Installer Packages
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0584 AppleJeus During AppleJeus's installation process, it uses postinstall scripts to extract a hidden plist from the
application's /Resources folder and execute the plist ﬁle as a Launch Daemon with elevated permissions.
Mitigations
This type of attack technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on the abuse of system features.Adversaries may establish persistence and elevate privileges by using an installer to trigger the execution of malicious content. Installer
packages are OS speciﬁc and contain the resources an operating system needs to install applications on a system. Installer packages can
include scripts that run prior to installation as well as after installation is complete. Installer scripts may inherit elevated permissions when
executed. Developers often use these scripts to prepare the environment for installation, check requirements, download dependencies, and
remove ﬁles after installation.
Using legitimate applications, adversaries have distributed applications with modiﬁed installer scripts to execute malicious content. When a
user installs the application, they may be required to grant administrative permissions to allow the installation. At the end of the installation
process of the legitimate application, content such as macOS postinstall scripts can be executed with the inherited elevated permissions.
Adversaries can use these scripts to execute a malicious executable or install other malicious components (such as a Launch Daemon) with
the elevated permissions.
Depending on the distribution, Linux versions of package installer scripts are sometimes called maintainer scripts or post installation scripts.
These scripts can include preinst , postinst , prerm , postrm scripts and run as root when executed.
For Windows, the Microsoft Installer services uses .msi ﬁles to manage the installing, updating, and uninstalling of applications.
Adversaries have leveraged Prebuild and Postbuild events to run commands before or after a build when installing .msi ﬁles.Other sub-techniques of Event Triggered Execution (16)
[1]
[2][3]
[4][5]
Version PermalinkID: T1546.016
Sub-technique of:  T1546

Tactics: Privilege Escalation, Persistence

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS

Permissions Required: User

Effective Permissions: root
Contributors: Brandon Dalton @PartyD0lphin
Version: 1.0
Created: 27 September 2022
Last Modiﬁed: 19 October 2022
[6]3/22/24, 3:39 PM Event Triggered Execution: Installer Packages, Sub-technique T1546.016 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1546/016/ 4/4Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that may be related to abuse of installer
packages, including malicious commands triggered by application installations.
DS0022 File File Creation Monitor creation of ﬁles associated with installer packages that may be abused for
malicious execution.
DS0009 Process Process Creation Monitor processes with arguments that may be related to abuse of installer packages,
including malicious, likely elevated processes triggered by application installations.
References
1. Rich Trouton. (2019, August 9). Installer Package Scripting:
Making your deployments easier, one ! at a time. Retrieved
September 27, 2022.
2. Brandon Dalton. (2022, August 9). A bundle of nerves:
Tweaking macOS security controls to thwart application
bundle manipulation. Retrieved September 27, 2022.
3. Patrick Wardle. (2020, June 29). OSX.EvilQuest Uncovered
part i: infection, persistence, and more!. Retrieved March 18,
2021.4. Global Research & Analysis Team, Kaspersky Lab (GReAT).
(2018, August 23). Operation AppleJeus: Lazarus hits
cryptocurrency exchange with fake installer and macOS
malware. Retrieved September 27, 2022.
5. Debian Policy Manual v4.6.1.1. (2022, August 14). Package
maintainer scripts and installation procedure. Retrieved
September 27, 2022.
. Patrick Wardle. (2019, October 12). Pass the AppleJeus.
Retrieved September 28, 2022.