3/22/24, 3:42 PM Hide Artifacts: Resource Forking, Sub-technique T1564.009 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/009/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:42 PM Hide Artifacts: Resource Forking, Sub-technique T1564.009 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/009/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Hide Artifacts>Resource Forking3/22/24, 3:42 PM Hide Artifacts: Resource Forking, Sub-technique T1564.009 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/009/ 3/4Hide Artifacts: Resource Forking
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0276 Keydnap Keydnap uses a resource fork to present a macOS JPEG or text ﬁle icon rather than the executable's icon
assigned by the operating system.
S0402 OSX/Shlayer OSX/Shlayer has used a resource fork to hide a compressed binary ﬁle of itself from the terminal, Finder, and
potentially evade traditional scanners.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1013 Application Developer
GuidanceConﬁgure applications to use the application bundle structure which leverages the
/Resources folder location.Adversaries may abuse resource forks to hide malicious code or executables to evade detection and bypass security applications. A resource
fork provides applications a structured way to store resources such as thumbnail images, menu deﬁnitions, icons, dialog boxes, and code.
Usage of a resource fork is identiﬁable when displaying a ﬁle’s extended attributes, using ls -l@ or xattr -l commands. Resource forks
have been deprecated and replaced with the application bundle structure. Non-localized resources are placed at the top level directory of an
application bundle, while localized resources are placed in the /Resources folder.
Adversaries can use resource forks to hide malicious data that may otherwise be stored directly in ﬁles. Adversaries can execute content with
an attached resource fork, at a speciﬁed offset, that is moved to an executable location then invoked. Resource fork content may also be
obfuscated/encrypted until execution.Other sub-techniques of Hide Artifacts (11)
[1]
[2][3]
[4][5]
Version PermalinkID: T1564.009
Sub-technique of:  T1564

Tactic: Defense Evasion

Platforms: macOS

Defense Bypassed: Gatekeeper, Notarization
Contributors: Ivan Sinyakov; Jaron Bradley @jbradley89
Version: 1.0
Created: 12 October 2021
Last Modiﬁed: 05 May 2022
[6]
[5][4]
[7]3/22/24, 3:42 PM Hide Artifacts: Resource Forking, Sub-technique T1564.009 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1564/009/ 4/4Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that are leveraging the use of resource forks,
especially those immediately followed by potentially malicious activity such as creating
network connections.
DS0022 File File Creation Monitor for newly constructed ﬁles that may abuse resource forks to hide malicious code or
executables to evade detection and bypass security applications.
File Metadata Identify ﬁles with the com.apple.ResourceFork extended attribute and large data amounts
stored in resource forks.
DS0009 Process Process Creation Monitor newly executed processes that may abuse resource forks to hide malicious code or
executables to evade detection and bypass security applications.
References
1. Tenon. (n.d.). Retrieved October 12, 2021.
2. Flylib. (n.d.). Identifying Resource and Data Forks. Retrieved
October 12, 2021.
3. Howard Oakley. (2020, October 24). There's more to ﬁles than
data: Extended Attributes. Retrieved October 12, 2021.
4. Phil Stokes. (2020, November 5). Resourceful macOS Malware
Hides in Named Fork. Retrieved October 12, 2021.5. Erika Noerenberg. (2020, June 29). TAU Threat Analysis:
Bundlore (macOS) mm-install-macos. Retrieved October 12,
2021.
. Marc-Etienne M.Leveille. (2016, July 6). New OSX/Keydnap
malware is hungry for credentials. Retrieved July 3, 2017.
7. Apple Inc. (2021, February 18). App security overview.
Retrieved October 12, 2021.