3/22/24, 3:36 PM Valid Accounts, Technique T1078 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1078/ 1/8Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:36 PM Valid Accounts, Technique T1078 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1078/ 2/8Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Valid Accounts3/22/24, 3:36 PM Valid Accounts, Technique T1078 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1078/ 3/8Valid Accounts
Adversaries may obtain and abuse credentials of existing accounts as a means of gaining Initial Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or
Defense Evasion. Compromised credentials may be used to bypass access controls placed on various resources on systems within the
network and may even be used for persistent access to remote systems and externally available services, such as VPNs, Outlook Web
Access, network devices, and remote desktop. Compromised credentials may also grant an adversary increased privilege to speciﬁc
systems or access to restricted areas of the network. Adversaries may choose not to use malware or tools in conjunction with the legitimate
access those credentials provide to make it harder to detect their presence.
In some cases, adversaries may abuse inactive accounts: for example, those belonging to individuals who are no longer part of an
organization. Using these accounts may allow the adversary to evade detection, as the original account user will not be present to identify
any anomalous activity taking place on their account.
The overlap of permissions for local, domain, and cloud accounts across a network of systems is of concern because the adversary may be
able to pivot across accounts and systems to reach a high level of access (i.e., domain or enterprise administrator) to bypass access
controls set within the enterprise.Sub-techniques (4)
[1]
[2]
[3]
Version PermalinkID: T1078
Sub-techniques:  T1078.001, T1078.002, T1078.003, T1078.004

Tactics: Defense Evasion, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, Initial Access

Platforms: Azure AD, Containers, Google Workspace, IaaS, Linux, Network, Oﬃce 365, SaaS, Windows, macOS

Permissions Required: Administrator, User

Effective Permissions: Administrator, User

Defense Bypassed: Anti-virus, Application Control, Firewall, Host Intrusion Prevention Systems, Network Intrusion Detection System,
System Access Controls
Contributors: Goldstein Menachem; Jon Sternstein, Stern Security; Mark Wee; Netskope; Praetorian; Prasad Somasamudram, McAfee;
Sekhar Sarukkai, McAfee; Syed Ummar Farooqh, McAfee; Yossi Weizman, Azure Defender Research Team
Version: 2.6
Created: 31 May 2017
Last Modiﬁed: 30 March 20233/22/24, 3:36 PM Valid Accounts, Technique T1078 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1078/ 4/8Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
C0028 2015 Ukraine
Electric Power
AttackDuring the 2015 Ukraine Electric Power Attack, Sandworm Team used valid accounts on the corporate
network to escalate privileges, move laterally, and establish persistence within the corporate network. 
G0026 APT18 APT18 actors leverage legitimate credentials to log into external remote services.
G0007 APT28 APT28 has used legitimate credentials to gain initial access, maintain access, and exﬁltrate data from a
victim network. The group has speciﬁcally used credentials stolen through a spearphishing email to login
to the DCCC network. The group has also leveraged default manufacturer's passwords to gain initial
access to corporate networks via IoT devices such as a VOIP phone, printer, and video decoder.
G0016 APT29 APT29 has used a compromised account to access an organization's VPN infrastructure.
G0064 APT33 APT33 has used valid accounts for initial access and privilege escalation.
G0087 APT39 APT39 has used stolen credentials to compromise Outlook Web Access (OWA).
G0096 APT41 APT41 used compromised credentials to log on to other systems.
G0001 Axiom Axiom has used previously compromised administrative accounts to escalate privileges.
G0008 Carbanak Carbanak actors used legitimate credentials of banking employees to perform operations that sent them
millions of dollars.
G0114 Chimera Chimera has used a valid account to maintain persistence via scheduled task.
G0035 Dragonﬂy Dragonﬂy has compromised user credentials and used valid accounts for operations.
S0567 Dtrack Dtrack used hard-coded credentials to gain access to a network share.
S0038 Duqu Adversaries can instruct Duqu to spread laterally by copying itself to shares it has enumerated and for
which it has obtained legitimate credentials (via keylogging or other means). The remote host is then
infected by using the compromised credentials to schedule a task on remote machines that executes the
malware.
G0051 FIN10 FIN10 has used stolen credentials to connect remotely to victim networks using VPNs protected with only
a single factor.
G0085 FIN4 FIN4 has used legitimate credentials to hijack email communications.
G0053 FIN5 FIN5 has used legitimate VPN, RDP, Citrix, or VNC credentials to maintain access to a victim environment.
G0037 FIN6 To move laterally on a victim network, FIN6 has used credentials stolen from various systems on which it
gathered usernames and password hashes.
G0046 FIN7 FIN7 has harvested valid administrative credentials for lateral movement.
G0061 FIN8 FIN8 has used valid accounts for persistence and lateral movement.
G0117 Fox Kitten Fox Kitten has used valid credentials with various services during lateral movement.
G0093 GALLIUM GALLIUM leveraged valid accounts to maintain access to a victim network.
S0604 Industroyer Industroyer can use supplied user credentials to execute processes and stop services.[4]
[5]
[6][7][8][9]
[10]
[11][12]
[13]
[14][15]
[16]
[17]
[18]
[19][20][21]
[22]
[23]
[24]
[25][26]
[27][28][29]
[30][31][32]
[33]
[34]
[35]
[36]
[37]3/22/24, 3:36 PM Valid Accounts, Technique T1078 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1078/ 5/8ID Name Description
G0004 Ke3chang Ke3chang has used credential dumpers or stealers to obtain legitimate credentials, which they used to
gain access to victim accounts.
S0599 Kinsing Kinsing has used valid SSH credentials to access remote hosts.
G1004 LAPSUS$ LAPSUS$ has used compromised credentials and/or session tokens to gain access into a victim's VPN,
VDI, RDP, and IAMs.
G0032 Lazarus Group Lazarus Group has used administrator credentials to gain access to restricted network segments.
G0065 Leviathan Leviathan has obtained valid accounts to gain initial access.
S0362 Linux Rabbit Linux Rabbit acquires valid SSH accounts through brute force. 
G0045 menuPass menuPass has used valid accounts including shared between Managed Service Providers and clients to
move between the two environments.
C0002 Night Dragon During Night Dragon, threat actors used compromised VPN accounts to gain access to victim systems.
G0049 OilRig OilRig has used compromised credentials to access other systems on a victim network.
C0014 Operation Wocao During Operation Wocao, threat actors used valid VPN credentials to gain initial access.
G0011 PittyTiger PittyTiger attempts to obtain legitimate credentials during operations.
G1005 POLONIUM POLONIUM has used valid compromised credentials to gain access to victim environments.
G0034 Sandworm Team Sandworm Team have used previously acquired legitimate credentials prior to attacks.
S0053 SeaDuke Some SeaDuke samples have a module to extract email from Microsoft Exchange servers using
compromised credentials.
G0091 Silence Silence has used compromised credentials to log on to other systems and escalate privileges.
G0122 Silent Librarian Silent Librarian has used compromised credentials to obtain unauthorized access to online accounts.
C0024 SolarWinds
CompromiseDuring the SolarWinds Compromise, APT29 used different compromised credentials for remote access
and to move laterally.
G0039 Suckﬂy Suckﬂy used legitimate account credentials that they dumped to navigate the internal victim network as
though they were the legitimate account owner.
G0088 TEMP.Veles TEMP.Veles has used compromised VPN accounts.
G0027 Threat Group-
3390Threat Group-3390 actors obtain legitimate credentials using a variety of methods and use them to
further lateral movement on victim networks.
G0102 Wizard Spider Wizard Spider has used valid credentials for privileged accounts with the goal of accessing domain
controllers.[38]
[39]
[40][41]
[42]
[43][44]
[45]
[46][47][48][49]
[50]
[51][52][15]
[53]
[54]
[55]
[56]
[57]
[58]
[59]
[60][61][62]
[63]
[64]
[65]
[66][67]3/22/24, 3:36 PM Valid Accounts, Technique T1078 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1078/ 6/8Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1036 Account Use
PoliciesUse conditional access policies to block logins from non-compliant devices or from outside deﬁned
organization IP ranges.
M1015 Active Directory
ConﬁgurationDisable legacy authentication, which does not support MFA, and require the use of modern
authentication protocols instead.
M1013 Application
Developer
GuidanceEnsure that applications do not store sensitive data or credentials insecurely. (e.g. plaintext credentials in
code, published credentials in repositories, or credentials in public cloud storage).
M1027 Password
PoliciesApplications and appliances that utilize default username and password should be changed immediately
after the installation, and before deployment to a production environment. When possible, applications
that use SSH keys should be updated periodically and properly secured.
Policies should minimize (if not eliminate) reuse of passwords between different user accounts,
especially employees using the same credentials for personal accounts that may not be defended by
enterprise security resources.
M1026 Privileged
Account
ManagementAudit domain and local accounts as well as their permission levels routinely to look for situations that
could allow an adversary to gain wide access by obtaining credentials of a privileged account. 
These audits should also include if default accounts have been enabled, or if new local accounts are
created that have not be authorized. Follow best practices for design and administration of an enterprise
network to limit privileged account use across administrative tiers. 
M1018 User Account
ManagementRegularly audit user accounts for activity and deactivate or remove any that are no longer needed.
M1017 User Training Applications may send push notiﬁcations to verify a login as a form of multi-factor authentication (MFA).
Train users to only accept valid push notiﬁcations and to report suspicious push notiﬁcations.
Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0028 Logon Session Logon Session
CreationMonitor for newly constructed logon behavior that may obtain and abuse credentials of
existing accounts as a means of gaining Initial Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation,
or Defense Evasion. Correlate other security systems with login information (e.g., a user
has an active login session but has not entered the building or does not have VPN
access).
Logon Session
MetadataLook for suspicious account behavior across systems that share accounts, either user,
admin, or service accounts. Examples: one account logged into multiple systems
simultaneously; multiple accounts logged into the same machine simultaneously;
accounts logged in at odd times or outside of business hours. Activity may be from
interactive login sessions or process ownership from accounts being used to execute
binaries on a remote system as a particular account.
DS0002 User Account User Account
AuthenticationMonitor for an attempt by a user that may obtain and abuse credentials of existing
accounts as a means of gaining Initial Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or
Defense Evasion.[68]
[69]
[3][70]
[71]3/22/24, 3:36 PM Valid Accounts, Technique T1078 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1078/ 7/8References
1. Adair, S., Lancaster, T., Volexity Threat Research. (2022, June
15). DriftingCloud: Zero-Day Sophos Firewall Exploitation and
an Insidious Breach. Retrieved July 1, 2022.
2. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency. (2022,
March 15). Russian State-Sponsored Cyber Actors Gain
Network Access by Exploiting Default Multifactor
Authentication Protocols and “PrintNightmare” Vulnerability.
Retrieved March 16, 2022.
3. Microsoft. (2016, April 15). Attractive Accounts for Credential
Theft. Retrieved June 3, 2016.
4. Electricity Information Sharing and Analysis Center; SANS
Industrial Control Systems. (2016, March 18). Analysis of the
Cyber Attack on the Ukranian Power Grid: Defense Use Case.
Retrieved March 27, 2018.
5. Adair, S. (2017, February 17). Detecting and Responding to
Advanced Threats within Exchange Environments. Retrieved
March 20, 2017.
. Hacquebord, F.. (2017, April 25). Two Years of Pawn Storm:
Examining an Increasingly Relevant Threat. Retrieved May 3,
2017.
7. Mueller, R. (2018, July 13). Indictment - United States of
America vs. VIKTOR BORISOVICH NETYKSHO, et al. Retrieved
September 13, 2018.
. MSRC Team. (2019, August 5). Corporate IoT – a path to
intrusion. Retrieved August 16, 2019.
9. NSA, CISA, FBI, NCSC. (2021, July). Russian GRU Conducting
Global Brute Force Campaign to Compromise Enterprise and
Cloud Environments. Retrieved July 26, 2021.
10. Douglas Bienstock. (2022, August 18). You Can’t Audit Me:
APT29 Continues Targeting Microsoft 365. Retrieved February
23, 2023.
11. Davis, S. and Carr, N. (2017, September 21). APT33: New
Insights into Iranian Cyber Espionage Group. Retrieved
February 15, 2018.
12. Ackerman, G., et al. (2018, December 21). OVERRULED:
Containing a Potentially Destructive Adversary. Retrieved
January 17, 2019.
13. Hawley et al. (2019, January 29). APT39: An Iranian Cyber
Espionage Group Focused on Personal Information. Retrieved
February 19, 2019.
14. Fraser, N., et al. (2019, August 7). Double DragonAPT41, a
dual espionage and cyber crime operation APT41. Retrieved
September 23, 2019.
15. Crowdstrike. (2020, March 2). 2020 Global Threat Report.
Retrieved December 11, 2020.
1. Novetta. (n.d.). Operation SMN: Axiom Threat Actor Group
Report. Retrieved November 12, 2014.
17. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research and Analysis Team. (2015,
February). CARBANAK APT THE GREAT BANK ROBBERY.
Retrieved August 23, 2018.
1. Cycraft. (2020, April 15). APT Group Chimera - APT Operation
Skeleton key Targets Taiwan Semiconductor Vendors.
Retrieved August 24, 2020.
19. US-CERT. (2018, March 16). Alert (TA18-074A): Russian
Government Cyber Activity Targeting Energy and Other Critical
Infrastructure Sectors. Retrieved June 6, 2018.
20. Slowik, J. (2021, October). THE BAFFLING BERSERK BEAR: A
DECADE’S ACTIVITY TARGETING CRITICAL
INFRASTRUCTURE. Retrieved December 6, 2021.37. Anton Cherepanov. (2017, June 12). Win32/Industroyer: A new
threat for industrial controls systems. Retrieved December 18,
2020.
3. MSTIC. (2021, December 6). NICKEL targeting government
organizations across Latin America and Europe. Retrieved
March 18, 2022.
39. Singer, G. (2020, April 3). Threat Alert: Kinsing Malware
Attacks Targeting Container Environments. Retrieved April 1,
2021.
40. MSTIC, DART, M365 Defender. (2022, March 24). DEV-0537
Criminal Actor Targeting Organizations for Data Exﬁltration
and Destruction. Retrieved May 17, 2022.
41. Brown, D., et al. (2022, April 28). LAPSUS$: Recent techniques,
tactics and procedures. Retrieved December 22, 2022.
42. Vyacheslav Kopeytsev and Seongsu Park. (2021, February
25). Lazarus targets defense industry with ThreatNeedle.
Retrieved October 27, 2021.
43. CISA. (2021, July 19). (AA21-200A) Joint Cybersecurity
Advisory – Tactics, Techniques, and Procedures of Indicted
APT40 Actors Associated with China’s MSS Hainan State
Security Department. Retrieved August 12, 2021.
44. Accenture iDefense Unit. (2019, March 5). Mudcarp's Focus on
Submarine Technologies. Retrieved August 24, 2021.
45. Anomali Labs. (2018, December 6). Pulling Linux
Rabbit/Rabbot Malware Out of a Hat. Retrieved March 4,
2019.
4. PwC and BAE Systems. (2017, April). Operation Cloud Hopper.
Retrieved April 5, 2017.
47. Symantec. (2020, November 17). Japan-Linked Organizations
Targeted in Long-Running and Sophisticated Attack
Campaign. Retrieved December 17, 2020.
4. US District Court Southern District of New York. (2018,
December 17). United States v. Zhu Hua Indictment. Retrieved
December 17, 2020.
49. GREAT. (2021, March 30). APT10: sophisticated multi-layered
loader Ecipekac discovered in A41APT campaign. Retrieved
June 17, 2021.
50. McAfee® Foundstone® Professional Services and McAfee
Labs™. (2011, February 10). Global Energy Cyberattacks:
“Night Dragon”. Retrieved February 19, 2018.
51. Unit42. (2016, May 1). Evasive Serpens Unit 42 Playbook
Viewer. Retrieved February 6, 2023.
52. Davis, S. and Caban, D. (2017, December 19). APT34 - New
Targeted Attack in the Middle East. Retrieved December 20,
2017.
53. Dantzig, M. v., Schamper, E. (2019, December 19). Operation
Wocao: Shining a light on one of China’s hidden hacking
groups. Retrieved October 8, 2020.
54. Bizeul, D., Fontarensky, I., Mouchoux, R., Perigaud, F., Pernet, C.
(2014, July 11). Eye of the Tiger. Retrieved September 29,
2015.
55. Microsoft. (2022, June 2). Exposing POLONIUM activity and
infrastructure targeting Israeli organizations. Retrieved July 1,
2022.
5. US-CERT. (2016, February 25). ICS Alert (IR-ALERT-H-16-056-
01) Cyber-Attack Against Ukrainian Critical Infrastructure.
Retrieved June 10, 2020.
57. Symantec Security Response. (2015, July 13).
“Forkmeiamfamous”: Seaduke, latest weapon in the Duke
armory. Retrieved July 22, 2015.3/22/24, 3:36 PM Valid Accounts, Technique T1078 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1078/ 8/821. CISA. (2020, December 1). Russian State-Sponsored
Advanced Persistent Threat Actor Compromises U.S.
Government Targets. Retrieved December 9, 2021.
22. Hod Gavriel. (2019, November 21). Dtrack: In-depth analysis of
APT on a nuclear power plant. Retrieved January 20, 2021.
23. Symantec Security Response. (2011, November). W32.Duqu:
The precursor to the next Stuxnet. Retrieved September 17,
2015.
24. FireEye iSIGHT Intelligence. (2017, June 16). FIN10: Anatomy
of a Cyber Extortion Operation. Retrieved June 25, 2017.
25. Vengerik, B. et al.. (2014, December 5). Hacking the Street?
FIN4 Likely Playing the Market. Retrieved December 17, 2018.
2. Vengerik, B. & Dennesen, K.. (2014, December 5). Hacking the
Street? FIN4 Likely Playing the Market. Retrieved January 15,
2019.
27. Scavella, T. and Rifki, A. (2017, July 20). Are you Ready to
Respond? (Webinar). Retrieved October 4, 2017.
2. Higgins, K. (2015, October 13). Proliﬁc Cybercrime Gang
Favors Legit Login Credentials. Retrieved October 4, 2017.
29. Bromiley, M. and Lewis, P. (2016, October 7). Attacking the
Hospitality and Gaming Industries: Tracking an Attacker
Around the World in 7 Years. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
30. FireEye Threat Intelligence. (2016, April). Follow the Money:
Dissecting the Operations of the Cyber Crime Group FIN6.
Retrieved June 1, 2016.
31. McKeague, B. et al. (2019, April 5). Pick-Six: Intercepting a
FIN6 Intrusion, an Actor Recently Tied to Ryuk and
LockerGoga Ransomware. Retrieved April 17, 2019.
32. Visa Public. (2019, February). FIN6 Cybercrime Group Expands
Threat to eCommerce Merchants. Retrieved September 16,
2019.
33. Loui, E. and Reynolds, J. (2021, August 30). CARBON SPIDER
Embraces Big Game Hunting, Part 1. Retrieved September 20,
2021.
34. Elovitz, S. & Ahl, I. (2016, August 18). Know Your Enemy: New
Financially-Motivated & Spear-Phishing Group. Retrieved
February 26, 2018.
35. CISA. (2020, September 15). Iran-Based Threat Actor Exploits
VPN Vulnerabilities. Retrieved December 21, 2020.
3. Cybereason Nocturnus. (2019, June 25). Operation Soft Cell: A
Worldwide Campaign Against Telecommunications Providers.
Retrieved July 18, 2019.5. Group-IB. (2018, September). Silence: Moving Into the
Darkside. Retrieved May 5, 2020.
59. DOJ. (2018, March 23). U.S. v. Rafatnejad et al . Retrieved
February 3, 2021.
0. FireEye. (2020, December 13). Highly Evasive Attacker
Leverages SolarWinds Supply Chain to Compromise Multiple
Global Victims With SUNBURST Backdoor. Retrieved January
4, 2021.
1. Naﬁsi, R., Lelli, A. (2021, March 4). GoldMax, GoldFinder, and
Sibot: Analyzing NOBELIUM’s layered persistence. Retrieved
March 8, 2021.
2. NCSC, CISA, FBI, NSA. (2021, May 7). Further TTPs associated
with SVR cyber actors. Retrieved July 29, 2021.
3. DiMaggio, J. (2016, May 17). Indian organizations targeted in
Suckﬂy attacks. Retrieved August 3, 2016.
4. Miller, S, et al. (2019, April 10). TRITON Actor TTP Proﬁle,
Custom Attack Tools, Detections, and ATT&CK Mapping.
Retrieved April 16, 2019.
5. Dell SecureWorks Counter Threat Unit Threat Intelligence.
(2015, August 5). Threat Group-3390 Targets Organizations
for Cyberespionage. Retrieved August 18, 2018.
. John, E. and Carvey, H. (2019, May 30). Unraveling the
Spiderweb: Timelining ATT&CK Artifacts Used by GRIM
SPIDER. Retrieved May 12, 2020.
7. Shilko, J., et al. (2021, October 7). FIN12: The Proliﬁc
Ransomware Intrusion Threat Actor That Has Aggressively
Pursued Healthcare Targets. Retrieved June 15, 2023.
. Microsoft. (2022, December 14). Conditional Access
templates. Retrieved February 21, 2023.
9. US-CERT. (n.d.). Risks of Default Passwords on the Internet.
Retrieved April 12, 2019.
70. Microsoft. (2016, April 16). Implementing Least-Privilege
Administrative Models. Retrieved June 3, 2016.
71. Plett, C., Poggemeyer, L. (12, October 26). Securing Privileged
Access Reference Material. Retrieved April 25, 2017.