3/22/24, 3:35 PM Stage Capabilities, Technique T1608 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1608/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:35 PM Stage Capabilities, Technique T1608 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1608/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Stage Capabilities3/22/24, 3:35 PM Stage Capabilities, Technique T1608 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1608/ 3/4Stage Capabilities
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0129 Mustang Panda Mustang Panda has used servers under their control to validate tracking pixels sent to phishing victims.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1056 Pre-
compromiseThis technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on behaviors performed
outside of the scope of enterprise defenses and controls.
Detection
ID Data Source Data ComponentDetects
DS0035 Internet Scan Response
ContentIf infrastructure or patterns in malware, tooling, certiﬁcates, or malicious web content have
been previously identiﬁed, internet scanning may uncover when an adversary has staged
their capabilities.Much of this activity will take place outside the visibility of the target
organization, making detection of this behavior diﬃcult. Detection efforts may be focused
on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as initial access and post-compromise
behaviors.Adversaries may upload, install, or otherwise set up capabilities that can be used during targeting. To support their operations, an adversary
may need to take capabilities they developed (Develop Capabilities) or obtained (Obtain Capabilities) and stage them on infrastructure under
their control. These capabilities may be staged on infrastructure that was previously purchased/rented by the adversary (Acquire
Infrastructure) or was otherwise compromised by them (Compromise Infrastructure). Capabilities may also be staged on web services, such
as GitHub or Pastebin, or on Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) offerings that enable users to easily provision applications.
Staging of capabilities can aid the adversary in a number of initial access and post-compromise behaviors, including (but not limited to):
Staging web resources necessary to conduct Drive-by Compromise when a user browses to a site.
Staging web resources for a link target to be used with spearphishing.
Uploading malware or tools to a location accessible to a victim network to enable Ingress Tool Transfer.
Installing a previously acquired SSL/TLS certiﬁcate to use to encrypt command and control traﬃc (ex: Asymmetric Cryptography with
Web Protocols).Sub-techniques (6)
[1][2][3][4][5]
[6][7][8]
[9][10]
[1]
[11]
Version PermalinkID: T1608
Sub-techniques:  T1608.001, T1608.002, T1608.003, T1608.004, T1608.005, T1608.006

Tactic: Resource Development

Platforms: PRE
Version: 1.2
Created: 17 March 2021
Last Modiﬁed: 19 October 2022
[12]3/22/24, 3:35 PM Stage Capabilities, Technique T1608 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1608/ 4/4References
1. Adair, S. and Lancaster, T. (2020, November 6). OceanLotus:
Extending Cyber Espionage Operations Through Fake
Websites. Retrieved November 20, 2020.
2. Kent Backman. (2021, May 18). When Intrusions Don’t Align: A
New Water Watering Hole and Oldsmar. Retrieved August 18,
2022.
3. Jérôme Segura. (2019, December 4). There's an app for that:
web skimmers found on PaaS Heroku. Retrieved August 18,
2022.
4. Ashwin Vamshi. (2019, January 24). Targeted Attacks
Abusing Google Cloud Platform Open Redirection. Retrieved
August 18, 2022.
5. Ashwin Vamshi. (2020, August 12). A Big Catch: Cloud
Phishing from Google App Engine and Azure App Service.
Retrieved August 18, 2022.
. Kindlund, D. (2012, December 30). CFR Watering Hole Attack
Details. Retrieved December 18, 2020.7. Gallagher, S.. (2015, August 5). Newly discovered Chinese
hacking group hacked 100+ websites to use as “watering
holes”. Retrieved January 25, 2016.
. Blasco, J. (2014, August 28). Scanbox: A Reconnaissance
Framework Used with Watering Hole Attacks. Retrieved
October 19, 2020.
9. Malwarebytes Threat Intelligence Team. (2020, October 14).
Silent Librarian APT right on schedule for 20/21 academic
year. Retrieved February 3, 2021.
10. Proofpoint Threat Insight Team. (2019, September 5). Threat
Actor Proﬁle: TA407, the Silent Librarian. Retrieved February 3,
2021.
11. DigiCert. (n.d.). How to Install an SSL Certiﬁcate. Retrieved
April 19, 2021.
12. Raggi, M. et al. (2022, March 7). The Good, the Bad, and the
Web Bug: TA416 Increases Operational Tempo Against
European Governments as Conﬂict in Ukraine Escalates.
Retrieved March 16, 2022.