3/22/24, 3:43 PM Masquerading, Technique T1036 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036/ 1/10Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:43 PM Masquerading, Technique T1036 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036/ 2/10Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Masquerading3/22/24, 3:43 PM Masquerading, Technique T1036 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036/ 3/10Masquerading
Adversaries may attempt to manipulate features of their artifacts to make them appear legitimate or benign to users and/or security tools.
Masquerading occurs when the name or location of an object, legitimate or malicious, is manipulated or abused for the sake of evading
defenses and observation. This may include manipulating ﬁle metadata, tricking users into misidentifying the ﬁle type, and giving legitimate
task or service names.
Renaming abusable system utilities to evade security monitoring is also a form of Masquerading. Masquerading may also include the use
of Proxy or VPNs to disguise IP addresses, which can allow adversaries to blend in with normal network traﬃc and bypass conditional
access policies or anti-abuse protections.Sub-techniques (9)
[1]
Version PermalinkID: T1036
Sub-techniques:  T1036.001, T1036.002, T1036.003, T1036.004, T1036.005, T1036.006, T1036.007, T1036.008, T1036.009

Tactic: Defense Evasion

Platforms: Containers, Linux, Windows, macOS

Defense Bypassed: Application Control
Contributors: Bartosz Jerzman; David Lu, Tripwire; Elastic; Felipe Espósito, @Pr0teus; Goldstein Menachem; Nick Carr, Mandiant; Oleg
Kolesnikov, Securonix
Version: 1.6
Created: 31 May 2017
Last Modiﬁed: 15 October 20233/22/24, 3:43 PM Masquerading, Technique T1036 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036/ 4/10Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0622 AppleSeed AppleSeed can disguise JavaScript ﬁles as PDFs.
G0007 APT28 APT28 has renamed the WinRAR utility to avoid detection.
G0050 APT32 APT32 has disguised a Cobalt Strike beacon as a Flash Installer.
S0268 Bisonal Bisonal dropped a decoy payload with a .jpg extension that contained a malicious Visual Basic script.
S0635 BoomBox BoomBox has the ability to mask malicious data strings as PDF ﬁles.
G0060 BRONZE BUTLER BRONZE BUTLER has masked executables with document ﬁle icons including Word and Adobe PDF.
C0015 C0015 During C0015, the threat actors named a binary ﬁle compareForfor.jpg to disguise it as a JPG ﬁle.
C0018 C0018 During C0018, AvosLocker was disguised using the victim company name as the ﬁlename.
S0497 Dacls The Dacls Mach-O binary has been disguised as a .nib ﬁle.
S1066 DarkTortilla DarkTortilla's payload has been renamed PowerShellInfo.exe .
S0673 DarkWatchman DarkWatchman has used an icon mimicking a text ﬁle to mask a malicious executable.
G0035 Dragonﬂy Dragonﬂy has created accounts disguised as legitimate backup and service accounts as well as an
email administration account.
S0634 EnvyScout EnvyScout has used folder icons for malicious ﬁles to lure victims into opening them.
S0512 FatDuke FatDuke has attempted to mimic a compromised user's traﬃc by using the same user agent as the
installed browser.
G1016 FIN13 FIN13 has masqueraded staged data by using the Windows certutil utility to generate fake Base64
encoded certiﬁcates with the input ﬁle.
S0696 Flagpro Flagpro can download malicious ﬁles with a .tmp extension and append them with .exe prior to
execution.
S0661 FoggyWeb FoggyWeb can masquerade the output of C2 commands as a fake, but legitimately formatted WebP
ﬁle.
G0094 Kimsuky Kimsuky has disguised its C2 addresses as the websites of shopping malls, governments, universities,
and others.
G0140 LazyScripter LazyScripter has used several different security software icons to disguise executables.
G0045 menuPass menuPass has used esentutl to change ﬁle extensions to their true type that were masquerading as .txt
ﬁles.
S1015 Milan Milan has used an executable named companycatalogue to appear benign.
S0637 NativeZone NativeZone has, upon execution, displayed a message box that appears to be related to a Ukrainian
electronic document management system.
G0133 Nomadic Octopus Nomadic Octopus attempted to make Octopus appear as a Telegram Messenger with a Russian
interface.
S0368 NotPetya NotPetya drops PsExec with the ﬁlename dllhost.dat.[2]
[3]
[4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]
[12]
[13]
[6]
[14]
[15][16]
[17]
[18]
[19]
[20]
[21]
[22]
[23]
[24]
[25]3/22/24, 3:43 PM Masquerading, Technique T1036 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036/ 5/10ID Name Description
G0049 OilRig OilRig has used .doc ﬁle extensions to mask malicious executables.
C0016 Operation Dust
StormFor Operation Dust Storm, the threat actors disguised some executables as JPG ﬁles.
C0006 Operation
HoneybeeDuring Operation Honeybee, the threat actors modiﬁed the MaoCheng dropper so its icon appeared as a
Word document.
G0068 PLATINUM PLATINUM has renamed rar.exe to avoid detection.
S1046 PowGoop PowGoop has disguised a PowerShell script as a .dat ﬁle (goopdate.dat).
S0565 Raindrop Raindrop was built to include a modiﬁed version of 7-Zip source code (including associated export
names) and Far Manager source code.
S0458 Ramsay Ramsay has masqueraded as a JPG image ﬁle.
S0662 RCSession RCSession has used a ﬁle named English.rtf to appear benign on victim hosts.
S0148 RTM RTM has been delivered as archived Windows executable ﬁles masquerading as PDF documents.
S0446 Ryuk Ryuk can create .dll ﬁles that actually contain a Rich Text File format document.
S1018 Saint Bot Saint Bot has renamed malicious binaries as wallpaper.mp4 and slideshow.mp4 to avoid detection.
C0024 SolarWinds
CompromiseDuring the SolarWinds Compromise, APT29 set the hostnames of their C2 infrastructure to match
legitimate hostnames in the victim environment. They also used IP addresses originating from the
same country as the victim for their VPN infrastructure.
S0615 SombRAT SombRAT can use a legitimate process name to hide itself.
G0127 TA551 TA551 has masked malware DLLs as dat and jpg ﬁles.
G0139 TeamTNT TeamTNT has disguised their scripts with docker-related ﬁle names.
S0682 TrailBlazer TrailBlazer has used ﬁlenames that match the name of the compromised system in attempt to avoid
detection.
S0266 TrickBot The TrickBot downloader has used an icon to appear as a Microsoft Word document.
S0689 WhisperGate WhisperGate has been disguised as a JPG extension to avoid detection as a malicious PE ﬁle.
G0112 Windshift Windshift has used icons mimicking MS Oﬃce ﬁles to mask malicious executables. Windshift has
also attempted to hide executables by changing the ﬁle extension to ".scr" to mimic Windows
screensavers.
S0466 WindTail WindTail has used icons mimicking MS Oﬃce ﬁles to mask payloads.
S0658 XCSSET XCSSET builds a malicious application bundle to resemble Safari through using the Safari icon and
Info.plist . 
G0128 ZIRCONIUM ZIRCONIUM has spoofed legitimate applications in phishing lures and changed ﬁle extensions to
conceal installation of malware.[26]
[27]
[28]
[29]
[30]
[31][32]
[33]
[34][35]
[36]
[37]
[38][39]
[40]
[41]
[42]
[43]
[44]
[45]
[46]
[47]
[48]
[47]
[49]
[50][51]3/22/24, 3:43 PM Masquerading, Technique T1036 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036/ 6/10Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1049 Antivirus/Antimalware Anti-virus can be used to automatically quarantine suspicious ﬁles.
M1040 Behavior Prevention on
EndpointImplement security controls on the endpoint, such as a Host Intrusion Prevention System
(HIPS), to identify and prevent execution of potentially malicious ﬁles (such as those with
mismatching ﬁle signatures).
M1045 Code Signing Require signed binaries.
M1038 Execution Prevention Use tools that restrict program execution via application control by attributes other than ﬁle
name for common operating system utilities that are needed.
M1022 Restrict File and Directory
PermissionsUse ﬁle system access controls to protect folders such as C:\Windows\System32.
M1017 User Training Train users not to open email attachments or click unknown links (URLs). Such training
fosters more secure habits within your organization and will limit many of the risks.3/22/24, 3:43 PM Masquerading, Technique T1036 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036/ 7/10Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to manipulate features
of their artifacts to make them appear legitimate or benign to users and/or security
tools. 
Note: For Windows, Event ID 4104 (from the Microsoft-Windows-Powershell/Operational
log) captures Powershell script blocks, which can be analyzed and used to detect on
potential Masquerading.
DS0022 File File Metadata Collect ﬁle hashes; ﬁle names that do not match their expected hash are suspect.
Perform ﬁle monitoring; ﬁles with known names but in unusual locations are suspect.
Look for indications of common characters that may indicate an attempt to trick users
into misidentifying the ﬁle type, such as a space as the last character of a ﬁle name or
the right-to-left override characters"\u202E", "[U+202E]", and "%E2%80%AE".
Check and ensure that ﬁle headers/signature and extensions match using magic bytes
detection and/or ﬁle signature validation. In Linux, the file command may be used
to check the ﬁle signature.
File
ModiﬁcationMonitor for changes made to ﬁles outside of an update or patch that may attempt to
manipulate features of their artifacts to make them appear legitimate or benign to users
and/or security tools. Windows Event ID 4663 (An Attempt Was Made to Access An
Object) can be used to alert on attempted ﬁle accesses that may be associate with
Masquerading.
DS0007 Image Image Metadata Collecting disk and resource ﬁlenames for binaries, comparing that the InternalName,
OriginalFilename, and/or ProductName match what is expected, could provide useful
leads but may not always be indicative of malicious activity. 
DS0009 Process OS API
ExecutionMonitor for API calls such as fork() which can be abused to masquerade or
manipulate process metadata.
Process
CreationMonitor for newly executed processes that may attempt to manipulate features of their
artifacts to make them appear legitimate or benign to users and/or security tools. The
RECYCLER and SystemVolumeInformation directories will be present on every drive.
Replace %systemroot% and %windir% with the actual paths as conﬁgured by the
endpoints.
Analytic 1 - Suspicious Run Locations
suspicious\_locations = filter process where ( image\_path == " :\RECYCLER\*"
or image\_path == " :\SystemVolumeInformation\*" or image\_path ==
"%windir%\Tasks\*" or image\_path == "%systemroot%\debug\*")
Process
MetadataMonitor for ﬁle names that are mismatched between the ﬁle name on disk and that of
the binary's PE metadata, this is a likely indicator that a binary was renamed after it was
compiled.
DS0003 Scheduled Job Scheduled Job
MetadataMonitor for contextual data about a scheduled job, which may include information such
as name, timing, command(s), etc.
On Windows, Event ID 4698 (Security Log - A scheduled task was created) can be used
to alert on the creation of scheduled tasks and provides metadata including the task
name and task content (as XML).
On Linux, auditing frameworks such as the Linux Auditing System (auditd) can be used
to alert on invocations of cron, and provides the metadata included when executing the
command.
Scheduled Job
ModiﬁcationMonitor for changes made to scheduled jobs that may attempt to manipulate features
of their artifacts to make them appear legitimate or benign to users and/or security
tools.[52]
[53]
[54]
[55]3/22/24, 3:43 PM Masquerading, Technique T1036 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036/ 8/10ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0019 Service Service Creation Monitor for newly constructed services/daemons that may attempt to manipulate
features of their artifacts to make them appear legitimate or benign to users and/or
security tools.
Service
MetadataMonitor for contextual data about a service/daemon, which may include information
such as name, service executable, start type, etc.3/22/24, 3:43 PM Masquerading, Technique T1036 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036/ 9/10References
1. LOLBAS. (n.d.). Living Off The Land Binaries and Scripts (and
also Libraries). Retrieved February 10, 2020.
2. Jazi, H. (2021, June 1). Kimsuky APT continues to target
South Korean government using AppleSeed backdoor.
Retrieved June 10, 2021.
3. NSA, CISA, FBI, NCSC. (2021, July). Russian GRU Conducting
Global Brute Force Campaign to Compromise Enterprise and
Cloud Environments. Retrieved July 26, 2021.
4. Dahan, A. (2017). Operation Cobalt Kitty. Retrieved December
27, 2018.
5. Mercer, W., et al. (2020, March 5). Bisonal: 10 years of play.
Retrieved January 26, 2022.
. MSTIC. (2021, May 28). Breaking down NOBELIUM’s latest
early-stage toolset. Retrieved August 4, 2021.
7. Chen, J. et al. (2019, November). Operation ENDTRADE: TICK’s
Multi-Stage Backdoors for Attacking Industries and Stealing
Classiﬁed Data. Retrieved June 9, 2020.
. DFIR Report. (2021, November 29). CONTInuing the Bazar
Ransomware Story. Retrieved September 29, 2022.
9. Venere, G. Neal, C. (2022, June 21). Avos ransomware group
expands with new attack arsenal. Retrieved January 11, 2023.
10. Stokes, P. (2020, July 27). Four Distinct Families of Lazarus
Malware Target Apple’s macOS Platform. Retrieved August 7,
2020.
11. Secureworks Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2022,
August 17). DarkTortilla Malware Analysis. Retrieved
November 3, 2022.
12. Smith, S., Stafford, M. (2021, December 14). DarkWatchman:
A new evolution in ﬁleless techniques. Retrieved January 10,
2022.
13. US-CERT. (2018, March 16). Alert (TA18-074A): Russian
Government Cyber Activity Targeting Energy and Other Critical
Infrastructure Sectors. Retrieved June 6, 2018.
14. Faou, M., Tartare, M., Dupuy, T. (2019, October). OPERATION
GHOST. Retrieved September 23, 2020.
15. Ta, V., et al. (2022, August 8). FIN13: A Cybercriminal Threat
Actor Focused on Mexico. Retrieved February 9, 2023.
1. Sygnia Incident Response Team. (2022, January 5). TG2003:
ELEPHANT BEETLE UNCOVERING AN ORGANIZED
FINANCIAL-THEFT OPERATION. Retrieved February 9, 2023.
17. Hada, H. (2021, December 28). Flagpro The new malware
used by BlackTech. Retrieved March 25, 2022.
1. Ramin Naﬁsi. (2021, September 27). FoggyWeb: Targeted
NOBELIUM malware leads to persistent backdoor. Retrieved
October 4, 2021.
19. KISA. (n.d.). Phishing Target Reconnaissance and Attack
Resource Analysis Operation Muzabi. Retrieved March 7,
2022.
20. Jazi, H. (2021, February). LazyScripter: From Empire to double
RAT. Retrieved November 24, 2021.
21. Matsuda, A., Muhammad I. (2018, September 13). APT10
Targeting Japanese Corporations Using Updated TTPs.
Retrieved September 17, 2018.
22. ClearSky Cyber Security . (2021, August). New Iranian
Espionage Campaign By “Siamesekitten” - Lyceum. Retrieved
June 6, 2022.
23. Guerrero-Saade, J. (2021, June 1). NobleBaron | New Poisoned
Installers Could Be Used In Supply Chain Attacks. Retrieved
August 4, 2021.29. Carr, N.. (2018, October 25). Nick Carr Status Update. Retrieved
April 22, 2019.
30. FBI, CISA, CNMF, NCSC-UK. (2022, February 24). Iranian
Government-Sponsored Actors Conduct Cyber Operations
Against Global Government and Commercial Networks.
Retrieved September 27, 2022.
31. Symantec Threat Hunter Team. (2021, January 18). Raindrop:
New Malware Discovered in SolarWinds Investigation.
Retrieved January 19, 2021.
32. MSTIC, CDOC, 365 Defender Research Team. (2021, January
20). Deep dive into the Solorigate second-stage activation:
From SUNBURST to TEARDROP and Raindrop . Retrieved
January 22, 2021.
33. Sanmillan, I.. (2020, May 13). Ramsay: A cyber‑espionage
toolkit tailored for air‑gapped networks. Retrieved May 27,
2020.
34. Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2019, December 29).
BRONZE PRESIDENT Targets NGOs. Retrieved April 13, 2021.
35. Lunghi, D. et al. (2020, February). Uncovering DRBControl.
Retrieved November 12, 2021.
3. Duncan, B., Harbison, M. (2019, January 23). Russian
Language Malspam Pushing Redaman Banking Malware.
Retrieved June 16, 2020.
37. ANSSI. (2021, February 25). RYUK RANSOMWARE. Retrieved
March 29, 2021.
3. Hasherezade. (2021, April 6). A deep dive into Saint Bot, a new
downloader. Retrieved June 9, 2022.
39. Unit 42. (2022, February 25). Spear Phishing Attacks Target
Organizations in Ukraine, Payloads Include the Document
Stealer OutSteel and the Downloader SaintBot. Retrieved June
9, 2022.
40. FireEye. (2020, December 13). Highly Evasive Attacker
Leverages SolarWinds Supply Chain to Compromise Multiple
Global Victims With SUNBURST Backdoor. Retrieved January
4, 2021.
41. CISA. (2021, May 6). Analysis Report (AR21-126A) FiveHands
Ransomware. Retrieved June 7, 2021.
42. Duncan, B. (2021, January 7). TA551: Email Attack Campaign
Switches from Valak to IcedID. Retrieved March 17, 2021.
43. Darin Smith. (2022, April 21). TeamTNT targeting AWS,
Alibaba. Retrieved August 4, 2022.
44. CrowdStrike. (2022, January 27). Early Bird Catches the
Wormhole: Observations from the StellarParticle Campaign.
Retrieved February 7, 2022.
45. Dahan, A. et al. (2019, December 11). DROPPING ANCHOR:
FROM A TRICKBOT INFECTION TO THE DISCOVERY OF THE
ANCHOR MALWARE. Retrieved September 10, 2020.
4. S2W. (2022, January 18). Analysis of Destructive Malware
(WhisperGate) targeting Ukraine. Retrieved March 14, 2022.
47. Wardle, Patrick. (2018, December 20). Middle East Cyber-
Espionage analyzing WindShift's implant: OSX.WindTail (part
1). Retrieved October 3, 2019.
4. The BlackBerry Research & Intelligence Team. (2020, October).
BAHAMUT: Hack-for-Hire Masters of Phishing, Fake News, and
Fake Apps. Retrieved February 8, 2021.
49. Mac Threat Response, Mobile Research Team. (2020, August
13). The XCSSET Malware: Inserts Malicious Code Into Xcode
Projects, Performs UXSS Backdoor Planting in Safari, and
Leverages Two Zero-day Exploits. Retrieved October 5, 2021.3/22/24, 3:43 PM Masquerading, Technique T1036 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1036/ 10/1024. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis Team. (2018,
October 15). Octopus-infested seas of Central Asia. Retrieved
November 14, 2018.
25. Chiu, A. (2016, June 27). New Ransomware Variant "Nyetya"
Compromises Systems Worldwide. Retrieved March 26, 2019.
2. Check Point. (2021, April 8). Iran’s APT34 Returns with an
Updated Arsenal. Retrieved May 5, 2021.
27. Gross, J. (2016, February 23). Operation Dust Storm. Retrieved
December 22, 2021.
2. Sherstobitoff, R. (2018, March 02). McAfee Uncovers
Operation Honeybee, a Malicious Document Campaign
Targeting Humanitarian Aid Groups. Retrieved May 16, 2018.50. Huntley, S. (2020, October 16). How We're Tackling Evolving
Online Threats. Retrieved March 24, 2021.
51. Singh, S. and Antil, S. (2020, October 27). APT-31 Leverages
COVID-19 Vaccine Theme and Abuses Legitimate Online
Services. Retrieved March 24, 2021.
52. Carr, N.. (2018, October 25). Nick Carr Status Update
Masquerading. Retrieved April 22, 2019.
53. Li, V. (2019, October 2). Polyglot Files: a Hacker’s best friend.
Retrieved September 27, 2022.
54. Kessler, G. (2022, December 9). GCK'S FILE SIGNATURES
TABLE. Retrieved August 23, 2022.
55. Ewing, P. (2016, October 31). How to Hunt: The Masquerade
Ball. Retrieved October 31, 2016.