3/22/24, 3:52 PM Data Manipulation: Stored Data Manipulation, Sub-technique T1565.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1565/001/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:52 PM Data Manipulation: Stored Data Manipulation, Sub-technique T1565.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1565/001/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Data Manipulation>Stored Data Manipulation3/22/24, 3:52 PM Data Manipulation: Stored Data Manipulation, Sub-technique T1565.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1565/001/ 3/4Data Manipulation: Stored Data Manipulation
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0082 APT38 APT38 has used DYEPACK to create, delete, and alter records in databases used for SWIFT transactions.
S0562 SUNSPOT SUNSPOT created a copy of the SolarWinds Orion software source ﬁle with a .bk extension to backup the
original content, wrote SUNBURST using the same ﬁlename but with a .tmp extension, and then moved
SUNBURST using MoveFileEx to the original ﬁlename with a .cs extension so it could be compiled within
Orion software.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1041 Encrypt Sensitive
InformationConsider encrypting important information to reduce an adversary’s ability to perform tailored data
modiﬁcations.
M1029 Remote Data
StorageConsider implementing IT disaster recovery plans that contain procedures for taking regular data
backups that can be used to restore organizational data. Ensure backups are stored off system and
is protected from common methods adversaries may use to gain access and manipulate backups.
M1022 Restrict File and
Directory
PermissionsEnsure least privilege principles are applied to important information resources to reduce exposure to
data manipulation risk.Adversaries may insert, delete, or manipulate data at rest in order to inﬂuence external outcomes or hide activity, thus threatening the
integrity of the data. By manipulating stored data, adversaries may attempt to affect a business process, organizational understanding,
and decision making.
Stored data could include a variety of ﬁle formats, such as Oﬃce ﬁles, databases, stored emails, and custom ﬁle formats. The type of
modiﬁcation and the impact it will have depends on the type of data as well as the goals and objectives of the adversary. For complex
systems, an adversary would likely need special expertise and possibly access to specialized software related to the system that would
typically be gained through a prolonged information gathering campaign in order to have the desired impact.Other sub-techniques of Data Manipulation (3)
[1][2]
Version PermalinkID: T1565.001
Sub-technique of:  T1565

Tactic: Impact

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS

Impact Type: Integrity
Version: 1.1
Created: 02 March 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 19 April 2022
[1]
[3]
[4]3/22/24, 3:52 PM Data Manipulation: Stored Data Manipulation, Sub-technique T1565.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1565/001/ 4/4Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0022 File File Creation Monitor for newly constructed ﬁles in order to manipulate external outcomes or hide activity
File Deletion Monitor for unexpected deletion of a ﬁle in order to manipulate external outcomes or hide
activity
File
ModiﬁcationMonitor for unexpected ﬁles with manipulated data in order to manipulate external outcomes
or hide activity
References
1. FireEye. (2018, October 03). APT38: Un-usual Suspects.
Retrieved November 6, 2018.
2. Department of Justice. (2018, September 6). Criminal
Complaint - United States of America v. PARK JIN HYOK.
Retrieved March 29, 2019.3. CrowdStrike Intelligence Team. (2021, January 11). SUNSPOT:
An Implant in the Build Process. Retrieved January 11, 2021.
4. Ready.gov. (n.d.). IT Disaster Recovery Plan. Retrieved March
15, 2019.