3/22/24, 3:50 PM Data from Information Repositories, Technique T1213 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1213/ 1/5Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:50 PM Data from Information Repositories, Technique T1213 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1213/ 2/5Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Data from Information Repositories3/22/24, 3:50 PM Data from Information Repositories, Technique T1213 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1213/ 3/5Data from Information Repositories
Adversaries may leverage information repositories to mine valuable information. Information repositories are tools that allow for storage of
information, typically to facilitate collaboration or information sharing between users, and can store a wide variety of data that may aid
adversaries in further objectives, or direct access to the target information. Adversaries may also abuse external sharing features to share
sensitive documents with recipients outside of the organization.
The following is a brief list of example information that may hold potential value to an adversary and may also be found on an information
repository:
Policies, procedures, and standards
Physical / logical network diagrams
System architecture diagrams
Technical system documentation
Testing / development credentials
Work / project schedules
Source code snippets
Links to network shares and other internal resources
Information stored in a repository may vary based on the speciﬁc instance or environment. Speciﬁc common information repositories
include web-based platforms such as Sharepoint and Conﬂuence, speciﬁc services such as Code Repositories, IaaS databases, enterprise
databases, and other storage infrastructure such as SQL Server.Sub-techniques (3)
Version PermalinkID: T1213
Sub-techniques:  T1213.001, T1213.002, T1213.003

Tactic: Collection

Platforms: Google Workspace, IaaS, Linux, Oﬃce 365, SaaS, Windows, macOS
Contributors: Isif Ibrahima, Mandiant; Milos Stojadinovic; Naveen Vijayaraghavan, Nilesh Dherange (Gurucul); Praetorian; Regina Elwell
Version: 3.2
Created: 18 April 2018
Last Modiﬁed: 11 April 20223/22/24, 3:50 PM Data from Information Repositories, Technique T1213 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1213/ 4/5Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0007 APT28 APT28 has collected ﬁles from various information repositories.
G0037 FIN6 FIN6 has collected schemas and user accounts from systems running SQL Server.
G0117 Fox Kitten Fox Kitten has accessed victim security and IT environments and Microsoft Teams to mine valuable
information.
G1004 LAPSUS$ LAPSUS$ has searched a victim's network for organization collaboration channels like MS Teams or
Slack to discover further high-privilege account credentials.
S0598 P.A.S. Webshell P.A.S. Webshell has the ability to list and extract data from SQL databases.
C0024 SolarWinds
CompromiseDuring the SolarWinds Compromise, APT29 accessed victims' internal knowledge repositories (wikis) to
view sensitive corporate information on products, services, and internal business operations.
G0010 Turla Turla has used a custom .NET tool to collect documents from an organization's internal central
database.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1047 Audit Consider periodic review of accounts and privileges for critical and sensitive repositories.
M1018 User Account
ManagementEnforce the principle of least-privilege. Consider implementing access control mechanisms that
include both authentication and authorization.
M1017 User Training Develop and publish policies that deﬁne acceptable information to be stored in repositories.
Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0015 Application Log Application
Log ContentMonitor for third-party application logging, messaging, and/or other artifacts that may
leverage information repositories to mine valuable information. Information repositories
generally have a considerably large user base, detection of malicious use can be non-
trivial. At minimum, access to information repositories performed by privileged users (for
example, Active Directory Domain, Enterprise, or Schema Administrators) should be
closely monitored and alerted upon, as these types of accounts should generally not be
used to access information repositories. If the capability exists, it may be of value to
monitor and alert on users that are retrieving and viewing a large number of documents
and pages; this behavior may be indicative of programmatic means being used to
retrieve all data within the repository. In environments with high-maturity, it may be
possible to leverage User-Behavioral Analytics (UBA) platforms to detect and alert on
user based anomalies.
DS0028 Logon Session Logon Session
CreationMonitor for newly constructed logon behavior within Microsoft's SharePoint can be
conﬁgured to report access to certain pages and documents. Sharepoint audit logging
can also be conﬁgured to report when a user shares a resource. The user access
logging within Atlassian's Conﬂuence can also be conﬁgured to report access to certain
pages and documents through AccessLogFilter. Additional log storage and analysis
infrastructure will likely be required for more robust detection capabilities.[1]
[2]
[3]
[4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
[10]3/22/24, 3:50 PM Data from Information Repositories, Technique T1213 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1213/ 5/5References
1. NSA, CISA, FBI, NCSC. (2021, July). Russian GRU Conducting
Global Brute Force Campaign to Compromise Enterprise and
Cloud Environments. Retrieved July 26, 2021.
2. Visa Public. (2019, February). FIN6 Cybercrime Group Expands
Threat to eCommerce Merchants. Retrieved September 16,
2019.
3. CISA. (2020, September 15). Iran-Based Threat Actor Exploits
VPN Vulnerabilities. Retrieved December 21, 2020.
4. MSTIC, DART, M365 Defender. (2022, March 24). DEV-0537
Criminal Actor Targeting Organizations for Data Exﬁltration
and Destruction. Retrieved May 17, 2022.
5. ANSSI. (2021, January 27). SANDWORM INTRUSION SET
CAMPAIGN TARGETING CENTREON SYSTEMS. Retrieved
March 30, 2021.. CrowdStrike. (2022, January 27). Early Bird Catches the
Wormhole: Observations from the StellarParticle Campaign.
Retrieved February 7, 2022.
7. Faou, M. (2020, May). From Agent.btz to ComRAT v4: A ten-
year journey. Retrieved June 15, 2020.
. Microsoft. (2017, July 19). Conﬁgure audit settings for a site
collection. Retrieved April 4, 2018.
9. Microsoft. (n.d.). Sharepoint Sharing Events. Retrieved
October 8, 2021.
10. Atlassian. (2018, January 9). How to Enable User Access
Logging. Retrieved April 4, 2018.