3/22/24, 3:47 PM Multi-Factor Authentication Interception, Technique T1111 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1111/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:47 PM Multi-Factor Authentication Interception, Technique T1111 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1111/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Multi-Factor Authentication Interception3/22/24, 3:47 PM Multi-Factor Authentication Interception, Technique T1111 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1111/ 3/4Multi-Factor Authentication Interception
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0114 Chimera Chimera has registered alternate phone numbers for compromised users to intercept 2FA codes sent via
SMS.
G0094 Kimsuky Kimsuky has used a proprietary tool to intercept one time passwords required for two-factor authentication.
G1004 LAPSUS$ LAPSUS$ has replayed stolen session token and passwords to trigger simple-approval MFA prompts in hope
of the legitimate user will grant necessary approval.
C0014 Operation
WocaoDuring Operation Wocao, threat actors used a custom collection method to intercept two-factor
authentication soft tokens.
S0018 Sykipot Sykipot is known to contain functionality that enables targeting of smart card technologies to proxy
authentication for connections to restricted network resources using detected hardware tokens.Adversaries may target multi-factor authentication (MFA) mechanisms, (i.e., smart cards, token generators, etc.) to gain access to credentials
that can be used to access systems, services, and network resources. Use of MFA is recommended and provides a higher level of security
than usernames and passwords alone, but organizations should be aware of techniques that could be used to intercept and bypass these
security mechanisms.
If a smart card is used for multi-factor authentication, then a keylogger will need to be used to obtain the password associated with a smart
card during normal use. With both an inserted card and access to the smart card password, an adversary can connect to a network resource
using the infected system to proxy the authentication with the inserted hardware token. 
Adversaries may also employ a keylogger to similarly target other hardware tokens, such as RSA SecurID. Capturing token input (including a
user's personal identiﬁcation code) may provide temporary access (i.e. replay the one-time passcode until the next value rollover) as well as
possibly enabling adversaries to reliably predict future authentication values (given access to both the algorithm and any seed values used
to generate appended temporary codes). 
Other methods of MFA may be intercepted and used by an adversary to authenticate. It is common for one-time codes to be sent via out-of-
band communications (email, SMS). If the device and/or service is not secured, then it may be vulnerable to interception. Service providers
can also be targeted: for example, an adversary may compromise an SMS messaging service in order to steal MFA codes sent to users’
phones.[1]
[2]
[3]
Version PermalinkID: T1111
Sub-techniques:  No sub-techniques

Tactic: Credential Access

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS
Contributors: John Lambert, Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center
Version: 2.1
Created: 31 May 2017
Last Modiﬁed: 14 April 2023
[4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]3/22/24, 3:47 PM Multi-Factor Authentication Interception, Technique T1111 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1111/ 4/4Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1017 User Training Remove smart cards when not in use.
Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0027 Driver Driver Load Monitor for use of proxied smart card connections by an adversary may be diﬃcult
because it requires the token to be inserted into a system; thus it is more likely to be
in use by a legitimate user and blend in with other network behavior. Similar
to Input Capture, keylogging activity can take various forms but can may be
detected via installation of a driver.
DS0009 Process OS API Execution Monitor for API calls associated with polling to intercept keystrokes.
DS0024 Windows RegistryWindows Registry
Key ModiﬁcationMonitor for changes to windows registry keys or values that may target multi-factor
authentication mechanisms, such as smart cards, to gain access to credentials that
can be used to access systems, services, and network resources.
References
1. Mandiant. (2011, January 27). Mandiant M-Trends 2011.
Retrieved January 10, 2016.
2. Jackson, William. (2011, June 7). RSA conﬁrms its tokens
used in Lockheed hack. Retrieved September 24, 2018.
3. Okta. (2022, August 25). Detecting Scatter Swine: Insights into
a Relentless Phishing Campaign. Retrieved February 24, 2023.
4. Jansen, W . (2021, January 12). Abusing cloud services to ﬂy
under the radar. Retrieved January 19, 2021.5. KISA. (n.d.). Phishing Target Reconnaissance and Attack
Resource Analysis Operation Muzabi. Retrieved March 7,
2022.
. MSTIC, DART, M365 Defender. (2022, March 24). DEV-0537
Criminal Actor Targeting Organizations for Data Exﬁltration
and Destruction. Retrieved May 17, 2022.
7. Dantzig, M. v., Schamper, E. (2019, December 19). Operation
Wocao: Shining a light on one of China’s hidden hacking
groups. Retrieved October 8, 2020.
. Blasco, J. (2012, January 12). Sykipot variant hijacks DOD
and Windows smart cards. Retrieved January 10, 2016.