3/22/24, 3:48 PM Container and Resource Discovery, Technique T1613 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1613/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:48 PM Container and Resource Discovery, Technique T1613 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1613/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Container and Resource Discovery3/22/24, 3:48 PM Container and Resource Discovery, Technique T1613 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1613/ 3/4Container and Resource Discovery
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0601 Hildegard Hildegard has used masscan to search for kubelets and the kubelet API for additional running containers.
S0683 Peirates Peirates can enumerate Kubernetes pods in a given namespace.
G0139 TeamTNT TeamTNT has checked for running containers with docker ps and for speciﬁc container names with docker
inspect . TeamTNT has also searched for Kubernetes pods running in a local network.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1035 Limit Access to
Resource Over
NetworkLimit communications with the container service to managed and secured channels, such as local Unix
sockets or remote access via SSH. Require secure port access to communicate with the APIs over TLS
by disabling unauthenticated access to the Docker API and Kubernetes API Server. In Kubernetes
clusters deployed in cloud environments, use native cloud platform features to restrict the IP ranges that
are permitted to access to API server. Where possible, consider enabling just-in-time (JIT) access to the
Kubernetes API to place additional restrictions on access.
M1030 Network
SegmentationDeny direct remote access to internal systems through the use of network proxies, gateways, and
ﬁrewalls.
M1018 User Account
ManagementEnforce the principle of least privilege by limiting dashboard visibility to only the required users. When
using Kubernetes, avoid giving users wildcard permissions or adding users to the system:masters
group, and use RoleBindings rather than ClusterRoleBindings to limit user privileges to speciﬁc
namespaces.Adversaries may attempt to discover containers and other resources that are available within a containers environment. Other resources may
include images, deployments, pods, nodes, and other information such as the status of a cluster.
These resources can be viewed within web applications such as the Kubernetes dashboard or can be queried via the Docker and Kubernetes
APIs. In Docker, logs may leak information about the environment, such as the environment’s conﬁguration, which services are available,
and what cloud provider the victim may be utilizing. The discovery of these resources may inform an adversary’s next steps in the
environment, such as how to perform lateral movement and which methods to utilize for execution.[1][2]
Version PermalinkID: T1613
Sub-techniques:  No sub-techniques

Tactic: Discovery

Platforms: Containers
Contributors: Center for Threat-Informed Defense (CTID); Vishwas Manral, McAfee; Yossi Weizman, Azure Defender Research Team
Version: 1.1
Created: 31 March 2021
Last Modiﬁed: 15 April 2023
[3]
[4]
[5] [6]
[7][8]
[9]
[10]
[11]3/22/24, 3:48 PM Container and Resource Discovery, Technique T1613 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1613/ 4/4Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0032 Container Container
EnumerationMonitor logs for actions that could be taken to gather information about container
infrastructure, including the use of discovery API calls by new or unexpected users. Monitor
account activity logs to see actions performed and activity associated with the Kubernetes
dashboard and other web applications.
DS0014 Pod Pod
EnumerationMonitor logs for actions that could be taken to gather information about pods, including the
use of discovery API calls by new or unexpected users. Monitor account activity logs to see
actions performed and activity associated with the Kubernetes dashboard and other web
applications.
References
1. Docker. (n.d.). Docker Engine API v1.41 Reference. Retrieved
March 31, 2021.
2. The Kubernetes Authors. (n.d.). The Kubernetes API. Retrieved
March 29, 2021.
3. Chen, J. et al. (2021, February 3). Hildegard: New TeamTNT
Cryptojacking Malware Targeting Kubernetes. Retrieved April
5, 2021.
4. InGuardians. (2022, January 5). Peirates GitHub. Retrieved
February 8, 2022.
5. Fiser, D. Oliveira, A. (n.d.). Tracking the Activities of TeamTNT
A Closer Look at a Cloud-Focused Malicious Actor Group.
Retrieved September 22, 2021.
. Darin Smith. (2022, April 21). TeamTNT targeting AWS,
Alibaba. Retrieved August 4, 2022.7. Docker. (n.d.). Protect the Docker Daemon Socket. Retrieved
March 29, 2021.
. The Kubernetes Authors. (n.d.). Controlling Access to The
Kubernetes API. Retrieved March 29, 2021.
9. Kubernetes. (n.d.). Overview of Cloud Native Security.
Retrieved March 8, 2023.
10. Microsoft. (2023, February 27). AKS-managed Azure Active
Directory integration. Retrieved March 8, 2023.
11. Kubernetes. (n.d.). Role Based Access Control Good Practices.
Retrieved March 8, 2023.