3/22/24, 3:50 PM Taint Shared Content, Technique T1080 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1080/ 1/5Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:50 PM Taint Shared Content, Technique T1080 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1080/ 2/5Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Taint Shared Content3/22/24, 3:50 PM Taint Shared Content, Technique T1080 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1080/ 3/5Taint Shared Content
Adversaries may deliver payloads to remote systems by adding content to shared storage locations, such as network drives or internal code
repositories. Content stored on network drives or in other shared locations may be tainted by adding malicious programs, scripts, or exploit
code to otherwise valid ﬁles. Once a user opens the shared tainted content, the malicious portion can be executed to run the adversary's code
on a remote system. Adversaries may use tainted shared content to move laterally.
A directory share pivot is a variation on this technique that uses several other techniques to propagate malware when users access a shared
network directory. It uses Shortcut Modiﬁcation of directory .LNK ﬁles that use Masquerading to look like the real directories, which are
hidden through Hidden Files and Directories. The malicious .LNK-based directories have an embedded command that executes the hidden
malware ﬁle in the directory and then opens the real intended directory so that the user's expected action still occurs. When used with
frequently used network directories, the technique may result in frequent reinfections and broad access to systems and potentially to new
and higher privileged accounts. 
Adversaries may also compromise shared network directories through binary infections by appending or prepending its code to the healthy
binary on the shared network directory. The malware may modify the original entry point (OEP) of the healthy binary to ensure that it is
executed before the legitimate code. The infection could continue to spread via the newly infected ﬁle when it is executed by a remote
system. These infections may target both binary and non-binary formats that end with extensions including, but not limited to, .EXE, .DLL,
.SCR, .BAT, and/or .VBS.[1]
Version PermalinkID: T1080
Sub-techniques:  No sub-techniques

Tactic: Lateral Movement

Platforms: Linux, Oﬃce 365, SaaS, Windows, macOS

System Requirements: Access to shared folders and content with write permissions
Contributors: David Routin; Michal Dida, ESET
Version: 1.4
Created: 31 May 2017
Last Modiﬁed: 31 May 20233/22/24, 3:50 PM Taint Shared Content, Technique T1080 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1080/ 4/5Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0060 BRONZE
BUTLERBRONZE BUTLER has placed malware on ﬁle shares and given it the same name as legitimate documents
on the share.
S0575 Conti Conti can spread itself by infecting other remote machines via network shared drives.
G0012 Darkhotel Darkhotel used a virus that propagates by infecting executables stored on shared drives.
G0047 Gamaredon
GroupGamaredon Group has injected malicious macros into all Word and Excel documents on mapped network
drives.
S0132 H1N1 H1N1 has functionality to copy itself to network shares.
S0260 InvisiMole InvisiMole can replace legitimate software or documents in the compromised network with their trojanized
versions, in an attempt to propagate itself within the network.
S0133 Miner-C Miner-C copies itself into the public folder of Network Attached Storage (NAS) devices and infects new
victims who open the ﬁle.
S0458 Ramsay Ramsay can spread itself by infecting other portable executable ﬁles on networks shared drives.
S0603 Stuxnet Stuxnet infects remote servers via network shares and by infecting WinCC database views with malicious
code.
S0386 Ursnif Ursnif has copied itself to and infected ﬁles in network drives for propagation.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1049 Antivirus/Antimalware Anti-virus can be used to automatically quarantine suspicious ﬁles.
M1038 Execution Prevention Identify potentially malicious software that may be used to taint content or may result from it
and audit and/or block the unknown programs by using application control tools, like
AppLocker, or Software Restriction Policies where appropriate. 
M1050 Exploit Protection Use utilities that detect or mitigate common features used in exploitation, such as the
Microsoft Enhanced Mitigation Experience Toolkit (EMET).
M1022 Restrict File and Directory
PermissionsProtect shared folders by minimizing users who have write access.[2]
[3][4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]
[12][13]
[14]
[15]
[16][17] [18] [19]3/22/24, 3:50 PM Taint Shared Content, Technique T1080 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1080/ 5/5Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0022 File File Creation Monitor for newly constructed ﬁles from ﬁles that write or overwrite many ﬁles to a
network shared directory may be suspicious.
File Modiﬁcation Monitor for ﬁles that write or overwrite many ﬁles to a network shared directory may be
suspicious.
DS0033 Network ShareNetwork Share
AccessMonitor for unexpected and abnormal accesses to network shares, especially those
also associated with ﬁle activity.
DS0009 Process Process Creation Monitor processes that are executed from removable media for malicious or abnormal
activity such as network connections due to Command and Control and possible
network Discovery techniques.
References
1. Routin, D. (2017, November 13). Abusing network shares for
eﬃcient lateral movements and privesc (DirSharePivot).
Retrieved April 12, 2018.
2. Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2017, October 12).
BRONZE BUTLER Targets Japanese Enterprises. Retrieved
January 4, 2018.
3. Rochberger, L. (2021, January 12). Cybereason vs. Conti
Ransomware. Retrieved February 17, 2021.
4. Baskin, B. (2020, July 8). TAU Threat Discovery: Conti
Ransomware. Retrieved February 17, 2021.
5. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research and Analysis Team. (2014,
November). The Darkhotel APT A Story of Unusual Hospitality.
Retrieved November 12, 2014.
. Boutin, J. (2020, June 11). Gamaredon group grows its game.
Retrieved June 16, 2020.
7. Reynolds, J.. (2016, September 14). H1N1: Technical analysis
reveals new capabilities – part 2. Retrieved September 26,
2016.
. Hromcova, Z. and Cherpanov, A. (2020, June). INVISIMOLE:
THE HIDDEN PART OF THE STORY. Retrieved July 16, 2020.
9. Cimpanu, C.. (2016, September 9). Cryptocurrency Mining
Malware Discovered Targeting Seagate NAS Hard Drives.
Retrieved October 12, 2016.
10. Sanmillan, I.. (2020, May 13). Ramsay: A cyber‑espionage
toolkit tailored for air‑gapped networks. Retrieved May 27,
2020.11. Nicolas Falliere, Liam O Murchu, Eric Chien 2011, February
W32.Stuxnet Dossier (Version 1.4) Retrieved. 2017/09/22
12. Caragay, R. (2015, March 26). URSNIF: The Multifaceted
Malware. Retrieved June 5, 2019.
13. Caragay, R. (2014, December 11). Info-Stealing File Infector
Hits US, UK. Retrieved June 5, 2019.
14. Pany, D. & Hanley, C. (2023, May 3). Cloudy with a Chance of
Bad Logs: Cloud Platform Log Conﬁgurations to Consider in
Investigations. Retrieved October 16, 2023.
15. Beechey, J. (2010, December). Application Whitelisting:
Panacea or Propaganda?. Retrieved November 18, 2014.
1. Tomonaga, S. (2016, January 26). Windows Commands
Abused by Attackers. Retrieved February 2, 2016.
17. NSA Information Assurance Directorate. (2014, August).
Application Whitelisting Using Microsoft AppLocker. Retrieved
March 31, 2016.
1. Corio, C., & Sayana, D. P. (2008, June). Application Lockdown
with Software Restriction Policies. Retrieved November 18,
2014.
19. Microsoft. (2012, June 27). Using Software Restriction
Policies and AppLocker Policies. Retrieved April 7, 2016.