3/22/24, 3:43 PM Impair Defenses: Indicator Blocking, Sub-technique T1562.006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1562/006/ 1/5Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:43 PM Impair Defenses: Indicator Blocking, Sub-technique T1562.006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1562/006/ 2/5Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Impair Defenses>Indicator Blocking3/22/24, 3:43 PM Impair Defenses: Indicator Blocking, Sub-technique T1562.006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1562/006/ 3/5Impair Defenses: Indicator Blocking
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S1063 Brute Ratel C4 Brute Ratel C4 has the ability to hide memory artifacts and to patch Event Tracing for Windows (ETW) and
the Anti Malware Scan Interface (AMSI).
S0377 Ebury Ebury can hook logging functions so that nothing from the backdoor gets sent to the logging facility.
S0697 HermeticWiper HermeticWiper has the ability to set the
HKLM:\SYSTEM\\CurrentControlSet\\Control\\CrashControl\CrashDumpEnabled Registry key to 0 in
order to disable crash dumps.
S0579 Waterbear Waterbear can hook the ZwOpenProcess and GetExtendedTcpTable APIs called by the process of a
security product to hide PIDs and TCP records from detection.
S1065 Woody RAT Woody RAT has suppressed all error reporting by calling SetErrorMode with 0x8007 as a parameter.An adversary may attempt to block indicators or events typically captured by sensors from being gathered and analyzed. This could include
maliciously redirecting or even disabling host-based sensors, such as Event Tracing for Windows (ETW), by tampering settings that
control the collection and ﬂow of event telemetry. These settings may be stored on the system in conﬁguration ﬁles and/or in the Registry
as well as being accessible via administrative utilities such as PowerShell or Windows Management Instrumentation.
For example, adversaries may modify the File value in
HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\EventLog\Security to hide their malicious actions in a new or different
.evtx log ﬁle. This action does not require a system reboot and takes effect immediately.
ETW interruption can be achieved multiple ways, however most directly by deﬁning conditions using the PowerShell Set-
EtwTraceProvider cmdlet or by interfacing directly with the Registry to make alterations.
In the case of network-based reporting of indicators, an adversary may block traﬃc associated with reporting to prevent central analysis.
This may be accomplished by many means, such as stopping a local process responsible for forwarding telemetry and/or creating a host-
based ﬁrewall rule to block traﬃc to speciﬁc hosts responsible for aggregating events, such as security information and event management
(SIEM) products.
In Linux environments, adversaries may disable or reconﬁgure log processing tools such as syslog or nxlog to inhibit detection and
monitoring capabilities to facilitate follow on behaviors .Other sub-techniques of Impair Defenses (11)
[1] [2]
[3]
[4]
[5]
Version PermalinkID: T1562.006
Sub-technique of:  T1562

Tactic: Defense Evasion

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS

Defense Bypassed: Anti-virus, Host intrusion prevention systems
Contributors: Lucas Heiligenstein; Rob Smith
Version: 1.3
Created: 19 March 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 18 September 2023
[6][7]
[8]
[9][10][11]
[12]
[13]3/22/24, 3:43 PM Impair Defenses: Indicator Blocking, Sub-technique T1562.006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1562/006/ 4/5Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1022 Restrict File and
Directory PermissionsEnsure event tracers/forwarders , ﬁrewall policies, and other associated mechanisms are
secured with appropriate permissions and access controls.
M1054 Software Conﬁguration Consider automatically relaunching forwarding mechanisms at recurring intervals (ex: temporal,
on-logon, etc.) as well as applying appropriate change management to ﬁrewall rules and other
related system conﬁgurations.
M1018 User Account
ManagementEnsure event tracers/forwarders , ﬁrewall policies, and other associated mechanisms are
secured with appropriate permissions and access controls and cannot be manipulated by user
accounts.
Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to block indicators or
events typically captured by sensors from being gathered and analyzed. Adversaries
may attempt to evade system defenses by unloading miniﬁlter drivers used by host-
based sensors such as Sysmon through the use of the ﬂtmc command-line utility.
Accordingly, this analytic looks for command-line invocations of this utility when
used to unload miniﬁlter drivers.
Analytic 1 - Indicator Blocking - Driver Unloaded
fltmc\_processes = filter processes where (exe = "fltmc.exe" AND
command\_line = " unload")
DS0013 Sensor Health Host Status Detect lack of reported activity from a host sensor. Different methods of blocking
may cause different disruptions in reporting. Systems may suddenly stop reporting
all data or only certain kinds of data. Depending on the types of host information
collected, an analyst may be able to detect the event that triggered a process to stop
or connection to be blocked. For example, Sysmon will log when its conﬁguration
state has changed (Event ID 16) and Windows Management Instrumentation (WMI)
may be used to subscribe ETW providers that log any provider removal from a
speciﬁc trace session. 
DS0024 Windows RegistryWindows
Registry Key
ModiﬁcationTo detect changes in ETW you can also monitor the registry key which contains
conﬁgurations for all ETW event providers:
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Control\WMI\Autologger\AUTOLOGGER\_NAME{PR
OVIDER\_GUID}[14]
[14]
[3]3/22/24, 3:43 PM Impair Defenses: Indicator Blocking, Sub-technique T1562.006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1562/006/ 5/5References
1. Microsoft. (2009, May 17). Backdoor:Win32/Lamin.A.
Retrieved September 6, 2018.
2. Microsoft. (2018, May 30). About Event Tracing. Retrieved
June 7, 2019.
3. Palantir. (2018, December 24). Tampering with Windows Event
Tracing: Background, Offense, and Defense. Retrieved June 7,
2019.
4. Heiligenstein, L. (n.d.). REP-25: Disable Windows Event
Logging. Retrieved April 7, 2022.
5. Manoj Ahuje. (2022, April 21). LemonDuck Targets Docker for
Cryptomining Operations. Retrieved June 30, 2022.
. Harbison, M. and Renals, P. (2022, July 5). When Pentest Tools
Go Brutal: Red-Teaming Tool Being Abused by Malicious
Actors. Retrieved February 1, 2023.
7. Chell, D. PART 3: How I Met Your Beacon – Brute Ratel.
Retrieved February 6, 2023.. M.Léveillé, M.. (2014, February 21). An In-depth Analysis of
Linux/Ebury. Retrieved April 19, 2019.
9. Guerrero-Saade, J. (2022, February 23). HermeticWiper | New
Destructive Malware Used In Cyber Attacks on Ukraine.
Retrieved March 25, 2022.
10. Thomas, W. et al. (2022, February 25). CrowdStrike Falcon
Protects from New Wiper Malware Used in Ukraine
Cyberattacks. Retrieved March 25, 2022.
11. Dani, M. (2022, March 1). Ukrainian Targets Hit by
HermeticWiper, New Datawiper Malware. Retrieved March 25,
2022.
12. Su, V. et al. (2019, December 11). Waterbear Returns, Uses API
Hooking to Evade Security. Retrieved February 22, 2021.
13. MalwareBytes Threat Intelligence Team. (2022, August 3).
Woody RAT: A new feature-rich malware spotted in the wild.
Retrieved December 6, 2022.
14. Microsoft. (2018, May 30). Event Tracing. Retrieved
September 6, 2018.