3/22/24, 3:34 PM Develop Capabilities: Code Signing Certiﬁcates, Sub-technique T1587.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1587/002/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:34 PM Develop Capabilities: Code Signing Certiﬁcates, Sub-technique T1587.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1587/002/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Develop Capabilities>Code Signing Certiﬁcates3/22/24, 3:34 PM Develop Capabilities: Code Signing Certiﬁcates, Sub-technique T1587.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1587/002/ 3/4Develop Capabilities: Code Signing Certiﬁcates
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
C0022 Operation Dream
JobDuring Operation Dream Job, Lazarus Group digitally signed their malware and the dbxcli utility.
G0040 Patchwork Patchwork has created self-signed certiﬁcates from ﬁctitious and spoofed legitimate software
companies that were later used to sign malware.
G0056 PROMETHIUM PROMETHIUM has created self-signed certiﬁcates to sign malicious installers.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1056 Pre-
compromiseThis technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on behaviors performed
outside of the scope of enterprise defenses and controls.
Detection
ID Data Source Data ComponentDetects
DS0004 Malware RepositoryMalware
MetadataConsider analyzing self-signed code signing certiﬁcates for features that may be
associated with the adversary and/or their developers, such as the thumbprint,
algorithm used, validity period, and common name. Malware repositories can also be
used to identify additional samples associated with the adversary and identify
patterns an adversary has used in crafting self-signed code signing certiﬁcates.Much
of this activity will take place outside the visibility of the target organization, making
detection of this behavior diﬃcult. Detection efforts may be focused on related
follow-on behavior, such as Code Signing or Install Root Certiﬁcate.Adversaries may create self-signed code signing certiﬁcates that can be used during targeting. Code signing is the process of digitally
signing executables and scripts to conﬁrm the software author and guarantee that the code has not been altered or corrupted. Code signing
provides a level of authenticity for a program from the developer and a guarantee that the program has not been tampered with. Users
and/or security tools may trust a signed piece of code more than an unsigned piece of code even if they don't know who issued the
certiﬁcate or who the author is.
Prior to Code Signing, adversaries may develop self-signed code signing certiﬁcates for use in operations.Other sub-techniques of Develop Capabilities (4)
[1]
Version PermalinkID: T1587.002
Sub-technique of:  T1587

Tactic: Resource Development

Platforms: PRE
Version: 1.1
Created: 01 October 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 17 October 2021
[2]
[3]
[4]3/22/24, 3:34 PM Develop Capabilities: Code Signing Certiﬁcates, Sub-technique T1587.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1587/002/ 4/4References
1. Wikipedia. (2015, November 10). Code Signing. Retrieved
March 31, 2016.
2. Breitenbacher, D and Osis, K. (2020, June 17). OPERATION
IN(TER)CEPTION: Targeted Attacks Against European
Aerospace and Military Companies. Retrieved December 20,
2021.3. Hinchliffe, A. and Falcone, R. (2020, May 11). Updated
BackConﬁg Malware Targeting Government and Military
Organizations in South Asia. Retrieved June 17, 2020.
4. Tudorica, R. et al. (2020, June 30). StrongPity APT - Revealing
Trojanized Tools, Working Hours and Infrastructure. Retrieved
July 20, 2020.