3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter: Visual Basic, Sub-technique T1059.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/005/ 1/13Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter: Visual Basic, Sub-technique T1059.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/005/ 2/13Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Command and Scripting Interpreter>Visual Basic3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter: Visual Basic, Sub-technique T1059.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/005/ 3/13Command and Scripting Interpreter: Visual Basic
Adversaries may abuse Visual Basic (VB) for execution. VB is a programming language created by Microsoft with interoperability with many
Windows technologies such as Component Object Model and the Native API through the Windows API. Although tagged as legacy with no
planned future evolutions, VB is integrated and supported in the .NET Framework and cross-platform .NET Core.
Derivative languages based on VB have also been created, such as Visual Basic for Applications (VBA) and VBScript. VBA is an event-driven
programming language built into Microsoft Oﬃce, as well as several third-party applications. VBA enables documents to contain macros
used to automate the execution of tasks and other functionality on the host. VBScript is a default scripting language on Windows hosts and
can also be used in place of JavaScript on HTML Application (HTA) webpages served to Internet Explorer (though most modern browsers do
not come with VBScript support).
Adversaries may use VB payloads to execute malicious commands. Common malicious usage includes automating execution of behaviors
with VBScript or embedding VBA content into Spearphishing Attachment payloads (which may also involve Mark-of-the-Web Bypass to
enable execution).Other sub-techniques of Command and Scripting Interpreter (9)
[1][2]
[3][4]
[5]
[6]
Version PermalinkID: T1059.005
Sub-technique of:  T1059

Tactic: Execution

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS
Version: 1.4
Created: 09 March 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 07 April 20233/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter: Visual Basic, Sub-technique T1059.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/005/ 4/13Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
C0028 2015 Ukraine Electric
Power AttackDuring the 2015 Ukraine Electric Power Attack, Sandworm Team installed a VBA script called
vba\_macro.exe . This macro dropped FONTCACHE.DAT , the primary BlackEnergy implant;
rundll32.exe , for executing the malware; NTUSER.log , an empty ﬁle; and desktop.ini, the default
ﬁle used to determine folder displays on Windows machines. 
C0025 2016 Ukraine Electric
Power AttackDuring the 2016 Ukraine Electric Power Attack, Sandworm Team created VBScripts to run on an
SSH server.
G0099 APT-C-36 APT-C-36 has embedded a VBScript within a malicious Word document which is executed upon
the document opening.
G0050 APT32 APT32 has used macros, COM scriptlets, and VBS scripts.
G0064 APT33 APT33 has used VBScript to initiate the delivery of payloads.
G0067 APT37 APT37 executes shellcode and a VBA script to decode Base64 strings.
G0082 APT38 APT38 has used VBScript to execute commands and other operational tasks.
G0087 APT39 APT39 has utilized malicious VBS scripts in malware.
S0373 Astaroth Astaroth has used malicious VBS e-mail attachments for execution.
S0475 BackConﬁg BackConﬁg has used VBS to install its downloader component and malicious documents with
VBA macro code.
S0234 Bandook Bandook has used malicious VBA code against the target system.
S0268 Bisonal Bisonal's dropper creates VBS scripts on the victim’s machine.
G0060 BRONZE BUTLER BRONZE BUTLER has used VBS and VBE scripts for execution.
S1039 Bumblebee Bumblebee can create a Visual Basic script to enable persistence.
C0011 C0011 For C0011, Transparent Tribe used malicious VBA macros within a lure document as part of the
Crimson malware installation process onto a compromised host.
C0015 C0015 During C0015, the threat actors used a malicious HTA ﬁle that contained a mix of HTML and
JavaScript/VBScript code.
S0631 Chaes Chaes has used VBscript to execute malicious code.
G0080 Cobalt Group Cobalt Group has sent Word OLE compound documents with malicious obfuscated VBA macros
that will run upon user execution.
S0154 Cobalt Strike Cobalt Strike can use VBA to perform execution.
S0244 Comnie Comnie executes VBS scripts.
G0142 Confucius Confucius has used VBScript to execute malicious code.
S1014 DanBot DanBot can use a VBA macro embedded in an Excel ﬁle to drop the payload.
S0695 Donut Donut can generate shellcode outputs that execute via VBScript.
G1006 Earth Lusca Earth Lusca used VBA scripts.[7]
[8]
[9]
[10][11]
[12]
[13]
[14]
[15]
[16]
[17]
[18]
[19][20]
[21][22]
[23][24]
[25]
[26]
[27]
[28][29][30][31][32][33]
[34][35][36]
[37]
[38]
[39]
[40]
[41]3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter: Visual Basic, Sub-technique T1059.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/005/ 5/13ID Name Description
S0367 Emotet Emotet has sent Microsoft Word documents with embedded macros that will invoke scripts to
download additional payloads. 
S0343 Exaramel for Windows Exaramel for Windows has a command to execute VBS scripts on the victim’s machine.
S0679 Ferocious Ferocious has the ability to use Visual Basic scripts for execution.
G1016 FIN13 FIN13 has used VBS scripts for code execution on comrpomised machines.
G0085 FIN4 FIN4 has used VBA macros to display a dialog box and collect victim credentials.
G0046 FIN7 FIN7 used VBS scripts to help perform tasks on the victim's machine.
S0696 Flagpro Flagpro can execute malicious VBA macros embedded in .xlsm ﬁles.
C0001 Frankenstein During Frankenstein, the threat actors used Word documents that prompted the victim to enable
macros and run a Visual Basic script.
C0007 FunnyDream During FunnyDream, the threat actors used a Visual Basic script to run remote commands.
G0047 Gamaredon Group Gamaredon Group has embedded malicious macros in document templates, which executed
VBScript. Gamaredon Group has also delivered Microsoft Outlook VBA projects with embedded
macros.
S0477 Goopy Goopy has the ability to use a Microsoft Outlook backdoor macro to communicate with its C2.
G0078 Gorgon Group Gorgon Group has used macros in Spearphishing Attachments as well as executed VBScripts on
victim machines.
S0531 Grandoreiro Grandoreiro can use VBScript to execute malicious code.
S0170 Helminth One version of Helminth consists of VBScript scripts.
G1001 HEXANE HEXANE has used a VisualBasic script named MicrosoftUpdator.vbs for execution of a
PowerShell keylogger.
G0126 Higaisa Higaisa has used VBScript code on the victim's machine.
S0483 IcedID IcedID has used obfuscated VBA string expressions.
G0100 Inception Inception has used VBScript to execute malicious commands and payloads.
S0528 Javali Javali has used embedded VBScript to download malicious payloads from C2.
S0389 JCry JCry has used VBS scripts. 
S0283 jRAT jRAT has been distributed as HTA ﬁles with VBScript.
S0648 JSS Loader JSS Loader can download and execute VBScript ﬁles.
S0585 Kerrdown Kerrdown can use a VBS base64 decoder function published by Motobit.
S0387 KeyBoy KeyBoy uses VBS scripts for installing ﬁles and performing execution.
G0094 Kimsuky Kimsuky has used Visual Basic to download malicious payloads. Kimsuky has also
used malicious VBA macros within maldocs disguised as forms that trigger when a victim types
any content into the lure.[42][43][44][45][46]
[47]
[48]
[49]
[50][51]
[52][53][54]
[55]
[56]
[57]
[58][59][60][61][62]
[11]
[63]
[16][64]
[65]
[66]
[67]
[68]
[69][70]
[16]
[71]
[72]
[54]
[73]
[74]
[75][76][77][78]
[78]3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter: Visual Basic, Sub-technique T1059.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/005/ 6/13ID Name Description
S0250 Koadic Koadic performs most of its operations using Windows Script Host (VBScript) and runs arbitrary
shellcode .
S0669 KOCTOPUS KOCTOPUS has used VBScript to call wscript to execute a PowerShell command.
G0032 Lazarus Group Lazarus Group has used VBA and embedded macros in Word documents to execute malicious
code.
G0140 LazyScripter LazyScripter has used VBScript to execute malicious code.
G0065 Leviathan Leviathan has used VBScript.
S0447 Lokibot Lokibot has used VBS scripts and XLS macros for execution.
S0582 LookBack LookBack has used VBA macros in Microsoft Word attachments to drop additional ﬁles to the
host.
G0095 Machete Machete has embedded malicious macros within spearphishing attachments to download
additional ﬁles.
G0059 Magic Hound Magic Hound malware has used VBS scripts for execution.
S0530 Melcoz Melcoz can use VBS scripts to execute malicious DLLs.
S0455 Metamorfo Metamorfo has used VBS code on victims’ systems.
G0021 Molerats Molerats used various implants, including those built with VBScript, on target machines.
G0069 MuddyWater MuddyWater has used VBScript ﬁles to execute its POWERSTATS payload, as well as macros.
G0129 Mustang Panda Mustang Panda has embedded VBScript components in LNK ﬁles to download additional ﬁles
and automate collection.
S0228 NanHaiShu NanHaiShu executes additional VBScript code on the victim's machine.
S0336 NanoCore NanoCore uses VBS ﬁles.
S0198 NETWIRE NETWIRE has been executed through use of VBScripts.
G0049 OilRig OilRig has used VBSscipt macros for execution on compromised hosts.
S0264 OopsIE OopsIE creates and uses a VBScript as part of its persistent execution.
C0012 Operation CuckooBees During Operation CuckooBees, the threat actors executed an encoded VBScript ﬁle using wscript
and wrote the decoded output to a text ﬁle.
C0022 Operation Dream Job During Operation Dream Job, Lazarus Group executed a VBA written malicious macro after
victims download malicious DOTM ﬁles; Lazarus Group also used Visual Basic macro code to
extract a double Base64 encoded DLL implant.
C0016 Operation Dust Storm During Operation Dust Storm, the threat actors used Visual Basic scripts.
C0006 Operation Honeybee For Operation Honeybee, the threat actors used a Visual Basic script embedded within a Word
document to download an implant.
C0013 Operation Sharpshooter During Operation Sharpshooter, the threat actors used a VBA macro to execute a simple
downloader that installed Rising Sun.[79]
[80]
[81][82]
[80]
[83]
[84]
[85]
[86]
[87]
[16]
[88]
[89][90]
[91]
[92][93][94][95][96][97][98][99]
[100][101][102]
[103]
[104]
[105][106]
[107]
[108][109]
[110]
[111][112]
[113]
[114]
[115]3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter: Visual Basic, Sub-technique T1059.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/005/ 7/13ID Name Description
C0014 Operation Wocao During Operation Wocao, threat actors used VBScript to conduct reconnaissance on targeted
systems.
S0352 OSX\_OCEANLOTUS.D OSX\_OCEANLOTUS.D uses Word macros for execution.
G0040 Patchwork Patchwork used Visual Basic Scripts (VBS) on victim machines.
S0428 PoetRAT PoetRAT has used Word documents with VBScripts to execute malicious activities.
S0441 PowerShower PowerShower has the ability to save and execute VBScript.
S0223 POWERSTATS POWERSTATS can use VBScript (VBE) code for execution.
S0147 Pteranodon Pteranodon can use a malicious VBS ﬁle for execution.
S0650 QakBot QakBot can use VBS to download and execute malicious ﬁles.
S0269 QUADAGENT QUADAGENT uses VBScripts.
S0458 Ramsay Ramsay has included embedded Visual Basic scripts in malicious documents.
G0075 Rancor Rancor has used VBS scripts as well as embedded macros for execution.
S0375 Remexi Remexi uses AutoIt and VBS scripts throughout its execution process.
S0496 REvil REvil has used obfuscated VBA macros for execution.
S0240 ROKRAT ROKRAT has used Visual Basic for execution.
S1018 Saint Bot Saint Bot has used .vbs scripts for execution.
G0034 Sandworm Team Sandworm Team has created VBScripts to run an SSH server.
S0589 Sibot Sibot executes commands using VBScript.
G1008 SideCopy SideCopy has sent Microsoft Oﬃce Publisher documents to victims that have embedded
malicious macros that execute an hta ﬁle via calling mshta.exe .
G0121 Sidewinder Sidewinder has used VBScript to drop and execute malware loaders.
G0091 Silence Silence has used VBS scripts.
S0226 Smoke Loader Smoke Loader adds a Visual Basic script in the Startup folder to deploy the payload.
S1086 Snip3 Snip3 can use visual basic scripts for ﬁrst-stage execution.
C0024 SolarWinds
CompromiseFor the SolarWinds Compromise, APT29 wrote malware such as Sibot in Visual Basic.
S1030 Squirrelwaﬄe Squirrelwaﬄe has used malicious VBA macros in Microsoft Word documents and Excel
spreadsheets that execute an AutoOpen subroutine.
S1037 STARWHALE STARWHALE can use the VBScript function GetRef as part of its persistence mechanism.
S0380 StoneDrill StoneDrill has several VBS scripts used throughout the malware's lifecycle.
S0559 SUNBURST SUNBURST used VBScripts to initiate the execution of payloads.
S1064 SVCReady SVCReady has used VBA macros to execute shellcode.[116]
[117]
[118][119]
[120][121]
[69]
[95][122]
[123]
[124][125][126][127][128][129][130]
[131]
[132][133]
[134]
[135]
[136][137]
[138]
[139]
[140][141][142][8]
[143]
[144]
[145]
[146]
[147]
[148][149]
[150]
[151][152]
[153]
[154]
[155]
[156]3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter: Visual Basic, Sub-technique T1059.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/005/ 8/13ID Name Description
G1018 TA2541 TA2541 has used VBS ﬁles to execute or establish persistence for additional payloads, often
using ﬁle names consistent with email themes or mimicking system functionality.
G0062 TA459 TA459 has a VBScript for execution.
G0092 TA505 TA505 has used VBS for code execution.
G0134 Transparent Tribe Transparent Tribe has crafted VBS-based malicious documents.
G0010 Turla Turla has used VBS scripts throughout its operations.
S0263 TYPEFRAME TYPEFRAME has used a malicious Word document for delivery with VBA macros for execution.
S0386 Ursnif Ursnif droppers have used VBA macros to download and execute the malware's full executable
payload.
S0442 VBShower VBShower has the ability to execute VBScript ﬁles.
S0689 WhisperGate WhisperGate can use a Visual Basic script to exclude the C:\ drive from Windows Defender.
G0112 Windshift Windshift has used Visual Basic 6 (VB6) payloads.
G0090 WIRTE WIRTE has used VBScript in its operations.
S0341 Xbash Xbash can execute malicious VBScript payloads on the victim’s machine.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1049 Antivirus/Antimalware Anti-virus can be used to automatically quarantine suspicious ﬁles.
M1040 Behavior Prevention on
EndpointOn Windows 10, enable Attack Surface Reduction (ASR) rules to prevent Visual Basic scripts
from executing potentially malicious downloaded content .
M1042 Disable or Remove Feature
or ProgramTurn off or restrict access to unneeded VB components.
M1038 Execution Prevention Use application control where appropriate. VBA macros obtained from the Internet, based on
the ﬁle's Mark of the Web (MOTW) attribute, may be blocked from executing in Oﬃce
applications (ex: Access, Excel, PowerPoint, Visio, and Word) by default starting in Windows
Version 2203.
M1021 Restrict Web-Based
ContentScript blocking extensions can help prevent the execution of scripts and HTA ﬁles that may
commonly be used during the exploitation process. For malicious code served up through ads,
adblockers can help prevent that code from executing in the ﬁrst place.[157][158]
[159]
[160][161][162][163]
[164][165]
[166]
[167]
[168]
[169]
[170]
[171]
[172]
[173]
[174]
[175]
[6]3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter: Visual Basic, Sub-technique T1059.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/005/ 9/13Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that may abuse Visual Basic (VB) for execution.
DS0011 Module Module Load Monitor for the loading of modules associated with VB languages (ex: vbscript.dll).
Note: For Windows, Sysmon Event ID 7 (Image loaded) can be used to alert on the loading of
DLL modules (e.g., vbscript.dll) associated with Visual Basic into processes. Due to the high
frequency of image load operations, Event ID 7 can generate a large volume of events.
Therefore, we recommend tuning the Sysmon conﬁguration ﬁle to exclude common, benign
image loads that may result in false positives.
DS0009 Process Process
CreationMonitor for events associated with VB execution, such as Oﬃce applications spawning
processes, usage of the Windows Script Host (typically cscript.exe or wscript.exe). VB
execution is likely to perform actions with various effects on a system that may generate
events, depending on the types of monitoring used.
DS0012 Script Script
ExecutionMonitor for any attempts to enable scripts running on a system would be considered
suspicious. If scripts are not commonly used on a system, but enabled, scripts running out of
cycle from patching or other administrator functions are suspicious. Scripts should be
captured from the ﬁle system when possible to determine their actions and intent.3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter: Visual Basic, Sub-technique T1059.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/005/ 10/13References
1. .NET Team. (2020, March 11). Visual Basic support planned
for .NET 5.0. Retrieved June 23, 2020.
2. Microsoft. (n.d.). Visual Basic documentation. Retrieved June
23, 2020.
3. Microsoft. (2019, June 11). Oﬃce VBA Reference. Retrieved
June 23, 2020.
4. Wikipedia. (n.d.). Visual Basic for Applications. Retrieved
August 13, 2020.
5. Microsoft. (2011, April 19). What Is VBScript?. Retrieved
March 28, 2020.
. Kellie Eickmeyer. (2022, February 7). Helping users stay safe:
Blocking internet macros by default in Oﬃce. Retrieved
February 7, 2022.
7. Booz Allen Hamilton When The Lights Went Out Retrieved.
2019/10/22
. Joe Slowik. (2018, October 12). Anatomy of an Attack:
Detecting and Defeating CRASHOVERRIDE. Retrieved
December 18, 2020.
9. QiAnXin Threat Intelligence Center. (2019, February 18). APT-C-
36: Continuous Attacks Targeting Colombian Government
Institutions and Corporations. Retrieved May 5, 2020.
10. Dahan, A. (2017, May 24). OPERATION COBALT KITTY: A
LARGE-SCALE APT IN ASIA CARRIED OUT BY THE
OCEANLOTUS GROUP. Retrieved November 5, 2018.
11. Dahan, A. (2017). Operation Cobalt Kitty. Retrieved December
27, 2018.
12. Microsoft Threat Protection Intelligence Team. (2020, June
18). Inside Microsoft Threat Protection: Mapping attack
chains from cloud to endpoint. Retrieved June 22, 2020.
13. Mercer, W., Rascagneres, P. (2018, January 16). Korea In The
Crosshairs. Retrieved May 21, 2018.
14. DHS/CISA. (2020, August 26). FASTCash 2.0: North Korea's
BeagleBoyz Robbing Banks. Retrieved September 29, 2021.
15. FBI. (2020, September 17). Indicators of Compromise
Associated with Rana Intelligence Computing, also known as
Advanced Persistent Threat 39, Chafer, Cadelspy, Remexi, and
ITG07. Retrieved December 10, 2020.
1. GReAT. (2020, July 14). The Tetrade: Brazilian banking
malware goes global. Retrieved November 9, 2020.
17. Hinchliffe, A. and Falcone, R. (2020, May 11). Updated
BackConﬁg Malware Targeting Government and Military
Organizations in South Asia. Retrieved June 17, 2020.
1. Check Point. (2020, November 26). Bandook: Signed &
Delivered. Retrieved May 31, 2021.
19. Hayashi, K., Ray, V. (2018, July 31). Bisonal Malware Used in
Attacks Against Russia and South Korea. Retrieved August 7,
2018.
20. Mercer, W., et al. (2020, March 5). Bisonal: 10 years of play.
Retrieved January 26, 2022.
21. Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2017, October 12).
BRONZE BUTLER Targets Japanese Enterprises. Retrieved
January 4, 2018.
22. Chen, J. et al. (2019, November). Operation ENDTRADE: TICK’s
Multi-Stage Backdoors for Attacking Industries and Stealing
Classiﬁed Data. Retrieved June 9, 2020.
23. Merriman, K. and Trouerbach, P. (2022, April 28). This isn't
Optimus Prime's Bumblebee but it's Still Transforming.
Retrieved August 22, 2022.9. GReAT. (2019, April 10). Gaza Cybergang Group1, operation
SneakyPastes. Retrieved May 13, 2020.
90. Falcone, R., et al. (2020, March 3). Molerats Delivers Spark
Backdoor to Government and Telecommunications
Organizations. Retrieved December 14, 2020.
91. Singh, S. et al.. (2018, March 13). Iranian Threat Group
Updates Tactics, Techniques and Procedures in Spear
Phishing Campaign. Retrieved April 11, 2018.
92. Villanueva, M., Co, M. (2018, June 14). Another Potential
MuddyWater Campaign uses Powershell-based PRB-
Backdoor. Retrieved July 3, 2018.
93. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis Team. (2018,
October 10). MuddyWater expands operations. Retrieved
November 2, 2018.
94. Symantec DeepSight Adversary Intelligence Team. (2018,
December 10). Seedworm: Group Compromises Government
Agencies, Oil & Gas, NGOs, Telecoms, and IT Firms. Retrieved
December 14, 2018.
95. ClearSky Cyber Security. (2018, November). MuddyWater
Operations in Lebanon and Oman: Using an Israeli
compromised domain for a two-stage campaign. Retrieved
November 29, 2018.
9. ClearSky. (2019, June). Iranian APT group ‘MuddyWater’ Adds
Exploits to Their Arsenal. Retrieved May 14, 2020.
97. Reaqta. (2017, November 22). A dive into MuddyWater APT
targeting Middle-East. Retrieved May 18, 2020.
9. Peretz, A. and Theck, E. (2021, March 5). Earth Vetala –
MuddyWater Continues to Target Organizations in the Middle
East. Retrieved March 18, 2021.
99. Malhortra, A and Ventura, V. (2022, January 31). Iranian APT
MuddyWater targets Turkish users via malicious PDFs,
executables. Retrieved June 22, 2022.
100. Meyers, A. (2018, June 15). Meet CrowdStrike’s Adversary of
the Month for June: MUSTANG PANDA. Retrieved April 12,
2021.
101. Anomali Threat Research. (2019, October 7). China-Based APT
Mustang Panda Targets Minority Groups, Public and Private
Sector Organizations. Retrieved April 12, 2021.
102. Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2019, December 29).
BRONZE PRESIDENT Targets NGOs. Retrieved April 13, 2021.
103. F-Secure Labs. (2016, July). NANHAISHU RATing the South
China Sea. Retrieved July 6, 2018.
104. Patel, K. (2018, March 02). The NanoCore RAT Has
Resurfaced From the Sewers. Retrieved November 9, 2018.
105. Maniath, S. and Kadam P. (2019, March 19). Dissecting a
NETWIRE Phishing Campaign's Usage of Process Hollowing.
Retrieved January 7, 2021.
10. Proofpoint. (2020, December 2). Geofenced NetWire
Campaigns. Retrieved January 7, 2021.
107. Check Point. (2021, April 8). Iran’s APT34 Returns with an
Updated Arsenal. Retrieved May 5, 2021.
10. Lee, B., Falcone, R. (2018, February 23). OopsIE! OilRig Uses
ThreeDollars to Deliver New Trojan. Retrieved July 16, 2018.
109. Falcone, R., et al. (2018, September 04). OilRig Targets a
Middle Eastern Government and Adds Evasion Techniques to
OopsIE. Retrieved September 24, 2018.
110. Cybereason Nocturnus. (2022, May 4). Operation CuckooBees:
Deep-Dive into Stealthy Winnti Techniques. Retrieved
September 22, 2022.3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter: Visual Basic, Sub-technique T1059.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/005/ 11/1324. Kamble, V. (2022, June 28). Bumblebee: New Loader Rapidly
Assuming Central Position in Cyber-crime Ecosystem.
Retrieved August 24, 2022.
25. N. Baisini. (2022, July 13). Transparent Tribe begins targeting
education sector in latest campaign. Retrieved September 22,
2022.
2. DFIR Report. (2021, November 29). CONTInuing the Bazar
Ransomware Story. Retrieved September 29, 2022.
27. Salem, E. (2020, November 17). CHAES: Novel Malware
Targeting Latin American E-Commerce. Retrieved June 30,
2021.
2. Svajcer, V. (2018, July 31). Multiple Cobalt Personality
Disorder. Retrieved September 5, 2018.
29. Positive Technologies. (2017, August 16). Cobalt Strikes Back:
An Evolving Multinational Threat to Finance. Retrieved
September 5, 2018.
30. Matveeva, V. (2017, August 15). Secrets of Cobalt. Retrieved
October 10, 2018.
31. Gorelik, M. (2018, October 08). Cobalt Group 2.0. Retrieved
November 5, 2018.
32. Unit 42. (2018, October 25). New Techniques to Uncover and
Attribute Financial actors Commodity Builders and
Infrastructure Revealed. Retrieved December 11, 2018.
33. Giagone, R., Bermejo, L., and Yarochkin, F. (2017, November
20). Cobalt Strikes Again: Spam Runs Use Macros and CVE-
2017-8759 Exploit Against Russian Banks. Retrieved March 7,
2019.
34. Cobalt Strike. (2017, December 8). Tactics, Techniques, and
Procedures. Retrieved December 20, 2017.
35. Mudge, R. (2017, May 23). Cobalt Strike 3.8 – Who’s Your
Daddy?. Retrieved June 4, 2019.
3. Mavis, N. (2020, September 21). The Art and Science of
Detecting Cobalt Strike. Retrieved April 6, 2021.
37. Grunzweig, J. (2018, January 31). Comnie Continues to Target
Organizations in East Asia. Retrieved June 7, 2018.
3. Lunghi, D and Horejsi, J. (2018, February 13). Deciphering
Confucius: A Look at the Group's Cyberespionage Operations.
Retrieved December 26, 2021.
39. SecureWorks 2019, August 27 LYCEUM Takes Center Stage in
Middle East Campaign Retrieved. 2019/11/19
40. TheWover. (2019, May 9). donut. Retrieved March 25, 2022.
41. Chen, J., et al. (2022). Delving Deep: An Analysis of Earth
Lusca’s Operations. Retrieved July 1, 2022.
42. Symantec. (2018, July 18). The Evolution of Emotet: From
Banking Trojan to Threat Distributor. Retrieved March 25,
2019.
43. Brumaghin, E.. (2019, January 15). Emotet re-emerges after
the holidays. Retrieved March 25, 2019.
44. Trend Micro. (2019, January 16). Exploring Emotet's Activities
. Retrieved March 25, 2019.
45. Özarslan, S. (2018, December 21). The Christmas Card you
never wanted - A new wave of Emotet is back to wreak havoc.
Retrieved March 25, 2019.
4. Lee, S.. (2019, April 24). Emotet Using WMI to Launch
PowerShell Encoded Code. Retrieved May 24, 2019.
47. Cherepanov, A., Lipovsky, R. (2018, October 11). New TeleBots
backdoor: First evidence linking Industroyer to NotPetya.
Retrieved November 27, 2018.
4. Yamout, M. (2021, November 29). WIRTE’s campaign in the
Middle East ‘living off the land’ since at least 2019. Retrieved
February 1, 2022.111. ClearSky Research Team. (2020, August 13). Operation
'Dream Job' Widespread North Korean Espionage Campaign.
Retrieved December 20, 2021.
112. Cashman, M. (2020, July 29). Operation North Star Campaign.
Retrieved December 20, 2021.
113. Gross, J. (2016, February 23). Operation Dust Storm. Retrieved
December 22, 2021.
114. Sherstobitoff, R. (2018, March 02). McAfee Uncovers
Operation Honeybee, a Malicious Document Campaign
Targeting Humanitarian Aid Groups. Retrieved May 16, 2018.
115. Sherstobitoff, R., Malhotra, A., et. al.. (2018, December 18).
Operation Sharpshooter Campaign Targets Global Defense,
Critical Infrastructure. Retrieved May 14, 2020.
11. Dantzig, M. v., Schamper, E. (2019, December 19). Operation
Wocao: Shining a light on one of China’s hidden hacking
groups. Retrieved October 8, 2020.
117. Horejsi, J. (2018, April 04). New MacOS Backdoor Linked to
OceanLotus Found. Retrieved November 13, 2018.
11. Lunghi, D., et al. (2017, December). Untangling the Patchwork
Cyberespionage Group. Retrieved July 10, 2018.
119. Meltzer, M, et al. (2018, June 07). Patchwork APT Group
Targets US Think Tanks. Retrieved July 16, 2018.
120. Mercer, W, et al. (2020, April 16). PoetRAT: Python RAT uses
COVID-19 lures to target Azerbaijan public and private sectors.
Retrieved April 27, 2020.
121. Mercer, W. Rascagneres, P. Ventura, V. (2020, October 6).
PoetRAT: Malware targeting public and private sector in
Azerbaijan evolves . Retrieved April 9, 2021.
122. Lunghi, D. and Horejsi, J.. (2019, June 10). MuddyWater
Resurfaces, Uses Multi-Stage Backdoor POWERSTATS V3 and
New Post-Exploitation Tools. Retrieved May 14, 2020.
123. Symantec. (2022, January 31). Shuckworm Continues Cyber-
Espionage Attacks Against Ukraine. Retrieved February 17,
2022.
124. Mendoza, E. et al. (2020, May 25). Qakbot Resurges, Spreads
through VBS Files. Retrieved September 27, 2021.
125. Sette, N. et al. (2020, June 4). Qakbot Malware Now
Exﬁltrating Emails for Sophisticated Thread Hijacking Attacks.
Retrieved September 27, 2021.
12. CS. (2020, October 7). Duck Hunting with Falcon Complete: A
Fowl Banking Trojan Evolves, Part 2. Retrieved September 27,
2021.
127. Trend Micro. (2020, December 17). QAKBOT: A decade-old
malware still with new tricks. Retrieved September 27, 2021.
12. Cyberint. (2021, May 25). Qakbot Banking Trojan. Retrieved
September 27, 2021.
129. Group IB. (2020, September). LOCK LIKE A PRO. Retrieved
September 27, 2021.
130. Keneﬁck, I. et al. (2022, October 12). Black Basta Ransomware
Gang Inﬁltrates Networks via QAKBOT, Brute Ratel, and Cobalt
Strike. Retrieved February 6, 2023.
131. Lee, B., Falcone, R. (2018, July 25). OilRig Targets Technology
Service Provider and Government Agency with QUADAGENT.
Retrieved August 9, 2018.
132. Sanmillan, I.. (2020, May 13). Ramsay: A cyber‑espionage
toolkit tailored for air‑gapped networks. Retrieved May 27,
2020.
133. Antiy CERT. (2020, April 20). Analysis of Ramsay components
of Darkhotel's inﬁltration and isolation network. Retrieved
March 24, 2021.
134. Ash, B., et al. (2018, June 26). RANCOR: Targeted Attacks in
South East Asia Using PLAINTEE and DDKONG Malware
Families. Retrieved July 2, 2018.3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter: Visual Basic, Sub-technique T1059.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/005/ 12/1349. Sygnia Incident Response Team. (2022, January 5). TG2003:
ELEPHANT BEETLE UNCOVERING AN ORGANIZED
FINANCIAL-THEFT OPERATION. Retrieved February 9, 2023.
50. Vengerik, B. et al.. (2014, December 5). Hacking the Street?
FIN4 Likely Playing the Market. Retrieved December 17, 2018.
51. Vengerik, B. & Dennesen, K.. (2014, December 5). Hacking the
Street? FIN4 Likely Playing the Market. Retrieved January 15,
2019.
52. Carr, N., et al. (2018, August 01). On the Hunt for FIN7:
Pursuing an Enigmatic and Evasive Global Criminal Operation.
Retrieved August 23, 2018.
53. Platt, J. and Reeves, J.. (2019, March). FIN7 Revisited: Inside
Astra Panel and SQLRat Malware. Retrieved June 18, 2019.
54. Loui, E. and Reynolds, J. (2021, August 30). CARBON SPIDER
Embraces Big Game Hunting, Part 1. Retrieved September 20,
2021.
55. Hada, H. (2021, December 28). Flagpro The new malware
used by BlackTech. Retrieved March 25, 2022.
5. Adamitis, D. et al. (2019, June 4). It's alive: Threat actors
cobble together open-source pieces into monstrous
Frankenstein campaign. Retrieved May 11, 2020.
57. Vrabie, V. (2020, November). Dissecting a Chinese APT
Targeting South Eastern Asian Government Institutions.
Retrieved September 19, 2022.
5. Kakara, H., Maruyama, E. (2020, April 17). Gamaredon APT
Group Use Covid-19 Lure in Campaigns. Retrieved May 19,
2020.
59. Boutin, J. (2020, June 11). Gamaredon group grows its game.
Retrieved June 16, 2020.
0. CERT-EE. (2021, January 27). Gamaredon Infection: From
Dropper to Entry. Retrieved February 17, 2022.
1. Microsoft Threat Intelligence Center. (2022, February 4).
ACTINIUM targets Ukrainian organizations. Retrieved February
18, 2022.
2. Secureworks CTU. (n.d.). IRON TILDEN. Retrieved February 24,
2022.
3. Falcone, R., et al. (2018, August 02). The Gorgon Group:
Slithering Between Nation State and Cybercrime. Retrieved
August 7, 2018.
4. ESET. (2020, April 28). Grandoreiro: How engorged can an EXE
get?. Retrieved November 13, 2020.
5. Falcone, R. and Lee, B.. (2016, May 26). The OilRig Campaign:
Attacks on Saudi Arabian Organizations Deliver Helminth
Backdoor. Retrieved May 3, 2017.
. Kayal, A. et al. (2021, October). LYCEUM REBORN:
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE IN THE MIDDLE EAST. Retrieved
June 14, 2022.
7. PT ESC Threat Intelligence. (2020, June 4). COVID-19 and New
Year greetings: an investigation into the tools and methods
used by the Higaisa group. Retrieved March 2, 2021.
. Kimayong, P. (2020, June 18). COVID-19 and FMLA
Campaigns used to install new IcedID banking malware.
Retrieved July 14, 2020.
9. Lancaster, T. (2018, November 5). Inception Attackers Target
Europe with Year-old Oﬃce Vulnerability. Retrieved May 8,
2020.
70. GReAT. (2014, December 10). Cloud Atlas: RedOctober APT is
back in style. Retrieved May 8, 2020.
71. Lee, S.. (2019, May 14). JCry Ransomware. Retrieved June 18,
2019.
72. Kamluk, V. & Gostev, A. (2016, February). Adwind - A Cross-
Platform RAT. Retrieved April 23, 2019.135. Legezo, D. (2019, January 30). Chafer used Remexi malware
to spy on Iran-based foreign diplomatic entities. Retrieved
April 17, 2019.
13. Han, Karsten. (2019, June 4). Strange Bits: Sodinokibi Spam,
CinaRAT, and Fake G DATA. Retrieved August 4, 2020.
137. Ozarslan, S. (2020, January 15). A Brief History of Sodinokibi.
Retrieved August 5, 2020.
13. Jazi, Hossein. (2021, January 6). Retrohunting APT37: North
Korean APT used VBA self decode technique to inject RokRat.
Retrieved March 22, 2022.
139. Unit 42. (2022, February 25). Spear Phishing Attacks Target
Organizations in Ukraine, Payloads Include the Document
Stealer OutSteel and the Downloader SaintBot. Retrieved June
9, 2022.
140. Cherepanov, A.. (2016, January 3). BlackEnergy by the
SSHBearDoor: attacks against Ukrainian news media and
electric industry . Retrieved June 10, 2020.
141. Cherepanov, A.. (2016, December 13). The rise of TeleBots:
Analyzing disruptive KillDisk attacks. Retrieved June 10, 2020.
142. Cherepanov, A.. (2017, June 30). TeleBots are back: Supply
chain attacks against Ukraine. Retrieved June 11, 2020.
143. Naﬁsi, R., Lelli, A. (2021, March 4). GoldMax, GoldFinder, and
Sibot: Analyzing NOBELIUM’s layered persistence. Retrieved
March 8, 2021.
144. Threat Intelligence Team. (2021, December 2). SideCopy APT:
Connecting lures victims, payloads to infrastructure. Retrieved
June 13, 2022.
145. Hegel, T. (2021, January 13). A Global Perspective of the
SideWinder APT. Retrieved January 27, 2021.
14. Skulkin, O.. (2019, January 20). Silence: Dissecting Malicious
CHM Files and Performing Forensic Analysis. Retrieved May
24, 2019.
147. Hasherezade. (2016, September 12). Smoke Loader –
downloader with a smokescreen still alive. Retrieved March
20, 2018.
14. Lorber, N. (2021, May 7). Revealing the Snip3 Crypter, a Highly
Evasive RAT Loader. Retrieved September 13, 2023.
149. Jornet, A. (2021, December 23). Snip3, an investigation into
malware. Retrieved September 19, 2023.
150. NCSC, CISA, FBI, NSA. (2021, May 7). Further TTPs associated
with SVR cyber actors. Retrieved July 29, 2021.
151. Kumar, A., Stone-Gross, Brett. (2021, September 28).
Squirrelwaﬄe: New Loader Delivering Cobalt Strike. Retrieved
August 9, 2022.
152. Palazolo, G. (2021, October 7). SquirrelWaﬄe: New Malware
Loader Delivering Cobalt Strike and QakBot. Retrieved August
9, 2022.
153. Tomcik, R. et al. (2022, February 24). Left On Read: Telegram
Malware Spotted in Latest Iranian Cyber Espionage Activity.
Retrieved August 18, 2022.
154. Kaspersky Lab. (2017, March 7). From Shamoon to StoneDrill:
Wipers attacking Saudi organizations and beyond. Retrieved
March 14, 2019.
155. MSTIC, CDOC, 365 Defender Research Team. (2021, January
20). Deep dive into the Solorigate second-stage activation:
From SUNBURST to TEARDROP and Raindrop . Retrieved
January 22, 2021.
15. Schlapfer, Patrick. (2022, June 6). A New Loader Gets Ready.
Retrieved December 13, 2022.
157. Larson, S. and Wise, J. (2022, February 15). Charting TA2541's
Flight. Retrieved September 12, 2023.3/22/24, 3:36 PM Command and Scripting Interpreter: Visual Basic, Sub-technique T1059.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1059/005/ 13/1373. Ray, V. and Hayashi, K. (2019, February 1). Tracking
OceanLotus’ new Downloader, KerrDown. Retrieved October 1,
2021.
74. Hulcoop, A., et al. (2016, November 17). It’s Parliamentary
KeyBoy and the targeting of the Tibetan Community. Retrieved
June 13, 2019.
75. ThreatConnect. (2020, September 28). Kimsuky Phishing
Operations Putting In Work. Retrieved October 30, 2020.
7. Kim, J. et al. (2019, October). KIMSUKY GROUP: TRACKING
THE KING OF THE SPEAR PHISHING. Retrieved November 2,
2020.
77. Crowdstrike. (2020, March 2). 2020 Global Threat Report.
Retrieved December 11, 2020.
7. An, J and Malhotra, A. (2021, November 10). North Korean
attackers use malicious blogs to deliver malware to high-
proﬁle South Korean targets. Retrieved December 29, 2021.
79. Magius, J., et al. (2017, July 19). Koadic. Retrieved June 18,
2018.
0. Jazi, H. (2021, February). LazyScripter: From Empire to double
RAT. Retrieved November 24, 2021.
1. Saini, A. and Hossein, J. (2022, January 27). North Korea’s
Lazarus APT leverages Windows Update client, GitHub in
latest campaign. Retrieved January 27, 2022.
2. Pradhan, A. (2022, February 8). LolZarus: Lazarus Group
Incorporating Lolbins into Campaigns. Retrieved March 22,
2022.
3. Axel F, Pierre T. (2017, October 16). Leviathan: Espionage actor
spearphishes maritime and defense targets. Retrieved
February 15, 2018.
4. Muhammad, I., Unterbrink, H.. (2021, January 6). A Deep Dive
into Lokibot Infection Chain. Retrieved August 31, 2021.
5. Raggi, M. Schwarz, D.. (2019, August 1). LookBack Malware
Targets the United States Utilities Sector with Phishing Attacks
Impersonating Engineering Licensing Boards. Retrieved
February 25, 2021.
. kate. (2020, September 25). APT-C-43 steals Venezuelan
military secrets to provide intelligence support for the
reactionaries — HpReact campaign. Retrieved November 20,
2020.
7. Lee, B. and Falcone, R. (2017, February 15). Magic Hound
Campaign Attacks Saudi Targets. Retrieved December 27,
2017.
. Sierra, E., Iglesias, G.. (2018, April 24). Metamorfo Campaigns
Targeting Brazilian Users. Retrieved July 30, 2020.15. Ventura, V. (2021, September 16). Operation Layover: How we
tracked an attack on the aviation industry to ﬁve years of
compromise. Retrieved September 15, 2023.
159. Axel F. (2017, April 27). APT Targets Financial Analysts with
CVE-2017-0199. Retrieved February 15, 2018.
10. Proofpoint Staff. (2017, September 27). Threat Actor Proﬁle:
TA505, From Dridex to GlobeImposter. Retrieved May 28,
2019.
11. Proofpoint Staff. (2018, June 8). TA505 shifts with the times.
Retrieved May 28, 2019.
12. Hiroaki, H. and Lu, L. (2019, June 12). Shifting Tactics:
Breaking Down TA505 Group’s Use of HTML, RATs and Other
Techniques in Latest Campaigns. Retrieved May 29, 2020.
13. Frydrych, M. (2020, April 14). TA505 Continues to Infect
Networks With SDBbot RAT. Retrieved May 29, 2020.
14. Huss, D. (2016, March 1). Operation Transparent Tribe.
Retrieved June 8, 2016.
15. Dedola, G. (2020, August 20). Transparent Tribe: Evolution
analysis, part 1. Retrieved September 2, 2021.
1. Symantec DeepSight Adversary Intelligence Team. (2019,
June 20). Waterbug: Espionage Group Rolls Out Brand-New
Toolset in Attacks Against Governments. Retrieved July 8,
2019.
17. US-CERT. (2018, June 14). MAR-10135536-12 – North Korean
Trojan: TYPEFRAME. Retrieved July 13, 2018.
1. Holland, A. (2019, March 7). Tricks and COMfoolery: How
Ursnif Evades Detection. Retrieved June 10, 2019.
19. GReAT. (2019, August 12). Recent Cloud Atlas activity.
Retrieved May 8, 2020.
170. Falcone, R. et al.. (2022, January 20). Threat Brief: Ongoing
Russia and Ukraine Cyber Conﬂict. Retrieved March 10, 2022.
171. Biasini, N. et al.. (2022, January 21). Ukraine Campaign
Delivers Defacement and Wipers, in Continued Escalation.
Retrieved March 14, 2022.
172. The BlackBerry Research & Intelligence Team. (2020, October).
BAHAMUT: Hack-for-Hire Masters of Phishing, Fake News, and
Fake Apps. Retrieved February 8, 2021.
173. S2 Grupo. (2019, April 2). WIRTE Group attacking the Middle
East. Retrieved May 24, 2019.
174. Xiao, C. (2018, September 17). Xbash Combines Botnet,
Ransomware, Coinmining in Worm that Targets Linux and
Windows. Retrieved November 14, 2018.
175. Microsoft. (2021, July 2). Use attack surface reduction rules to
prevent malware infection. Retrieved June 24, 2021.