3/22/24, 3:52 PM Web Service: Bidirectional Communication, Sub-technique T1102.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1102/002/ 1/8Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:52 PM Web Service: Bidirectional Communication, Sub-technique T1102.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1102/002/ 2/8Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Web Service>Bidirectional Communication3/22/24, 3:52 PM Web Service: Bidirectional Communication, Sub-technique T1102.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1102/002/ 3/8Web Service: Bidirectional Communication
Adversaries may use an existing, legitimate external Web service as a means for sending commands to and receiving output from a
compromised system over the Web service channel. Compromised systems may leverage popular websites and social media to host
command and control (C2) instructions. Those infected systems can then send the output from those commands back over that Web
service channel. The return traﬃc may occur in a variety of ways, depending on the Web service being utilized. For example, the return traﬃc
may take the form of the compromised system posting a comment on a forum, issuing a pull request to development project, updating a
document hosted on a Web service, or by sending a Tweet.
Popular websites and social media acting as a mechanism for C2 may give a signiﬁcant amount of cover due to the likelihood that hosts
within a network are already communicating with them prior to a compromise. Using common services, such as those offered by Google or
Twitter, makes it easier for adversaries to hide in expected noise. Web service providers commonly use SSL/TLS encryption, giving
adversaries an added level of protection.Other sub-techniques of Web Service (3)
Version PermalinkID: T1102.002
Sub-technique of:  T1102

Tactic: Command and Control

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS

Permissions Required: User
Version: 1.0
Created: 14 March 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 26 March 20203/22/24, 3:52 PM Web Service: Bidirectional Communication, Sub-technique T1102.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1102/002/ 4/8Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0005 APT12 APT12 has used blogs and WordPress for C2 infrastructure.
G0007 APT28 APT28 has used Google Drive for C2.
G0067 APT37 APT37 leverages social networking sites and cloud platforms (AOL, Twitter, Yandex, Mediaﬁre, pCloud,
Dropbox, and Box) for C2.
G0087 APT39 APT39 has communicated with C2 through ﬁles uploaded to and downloaded from DropBox.
S0128 BADNEWS BADNEWS can use multiple C2 channels, including RSS feeds, Github, forums, and blogs.
S0069 BLACKCOFFEE BLACKCOFFEE has also obfuscated its C2 traﬃc as normal traﬃc to sites such as Github.
S0657 BLUELIGHT BLUELIGHT can use different cloud providers for its C2.
S0651 BoxCaon BoxCaon has used DropBox for C2 communications.
S0025 CALENDAR The CALENDAR malware communicates through the use of events in Google Calendar.
G0008 Carbanak Carbanak has used a VBScript named "ggldr" that uses Google Apps Script, Sheets, and Forms services for
C2.
S0660 Clambling Clambling can use Dropbox to download malicious payloads, send commands, and receive information.
S0054 CloudDuke One variant of CloudDuke uses a Microsoft OneDrive account to exchange commands and stolen data with
its operators.
S0244 Comnie Comnie uses blogs and third-party sites (GitHub, tumbler, and BlogSpot) to avoid DNS-based blocking of
their communication to the command and control server.
S0126 ComRAT ComRAT has the ability to use the Gmail web UI to receive commands and exﬁltrate information.
S0046 CozyCar CozyCar uses Twitter as a backup C2 channel to Twitter accounts speciﬁed in its conﬁguration ﬁle.
S1023 CreepyDrive CreepyDrive can use OneDrive for C2.
S0538 Crutch Crutch can use Dropbox to receive commands and upload stolen data.
S0213 DOGCALL DOGCALL is capable of leveraging cloud storage APIs such as Cloud, Box, Dropbox, and Yandex for C2.
S0363 Empire Empire can use Dropbox and GitHub for C2.
G0046 FIN7 FIN7 used legitimate services like Google Docs, Google Scripts, and Pastebin for C2.
S0026 GLOOX MAIL GLOOX MAIL communicates to servers operated by Google using the Jabber/XMPP protocol.
S0531 Grandoreiro Grandoreiro can utilize web services including Google sites to send and receive C2 data.
G1001 HEXANE HEXANE has used cloud services, including OneDrive, for C2.
S0215 KARAE KARAE can use public cloud-based storage providers for command and control.
S0265 Kazuar Kazuar has used compromised WordPress blogs as C2 servers.[1]
[2]
[3][4]
[5]
[6][7][8]
[9][10]
[11]
[12]
[13][14]
[15]
[16]
[17]
[18]
[19]
[20][21]
[22]
[23]
[24]
[3]
[25]
[26]
[27]
[13][28]
[29][30]
[23]
[3]
[31]3/22/24, 3:52 PM Web Service: Bidirectional Communication, Sub-technique T1102.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1102/002/ 5/8ID Name Description
G0094 Kimsuky Kimsuky has used Blogspot pages for C2.
G0032 Lazarus Group Lazarus Group has used GitHub as C2, pulling hosted image payloads then committing command
execution output to ﬁles in speciﬁc directories.
S0042 LOWBALL LOWBALL uses the Dropbox cloud storage service for command and control.
G0059 Magic Hound Magic Hound malware can use a SOAP Web service to communicate with its C2 server.
G0069 MuddyWater MuddyWater has used web services including OneHub to distribute remote access tools.
C0023 Operation
GhostFor Operation Ghost, APT29 used social media platforms to hide communications to C2 servers.
S0229 Orz Orz has used Technet and Pastebin web pages for command and control.
G1005 POLONIUM POLONIUM has used OneDrive and DropBox for C2.
S0216 POOR AIM POOR AIM has used AOL Instant Messenger for C2.
S0393 PowerStallion PowerStallion uses Microsoft OneDrive as a C2 server via a network drive mapped with net use .
S0511 RegDuke RegDuke can use Dropbox as its C2 server.
S0379 Revenge RAT Revenge RAT used blogpost.com as its primary command and control server during a campaign.
S0270 RogueRobin RogueRobin has used Google Drive as a Command and Control channel. 
S0240 ROKRAT ROKRAT has used legitimate social networking sites and cloud platforms (including but not limited to
Twitter, Yandex, Dropbox, and Mediaﬁre) for C2 communications.
G0034 Sandworm
TeamSandworm Team has used the Telegram Bot API from Telegram Messenger to send and receive commands
to its Python backdoor. Sandworm Team also used legitimate M.E.Doc software update check requests for
sending and receiving commands and hosted malicious payloads on putdrive.com.
S0218 SLOWDRIFT SLOWDRIFT uses cloud based services for C2.
S1035 Small Sieve Small Sieve has the ability to use the Telegram Bot API from Telegram Messenger to send and receive
messages.
G0010 Turla A Turla JavaScript backdoor has used Google Apps Script as its C2 server.
S0333 UBoatRAT UBoatRAT has used GitHub and a public blog service in Hong Kong for C2 communications.
S0248 yty yty communicates to the C2 server by retrieving a Google Doc.
G0128 ZIRCONIUM ZIRCONIUM has used Dropbox for C2 allowing upload and download of ﬁles as well as execution of
arbitrary commands.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1031 Network Intrusion
PreventionNetwork intrusion detection and prevention systems that use network signatures to identify traﬃc for
speciﬁc adversary malware can be used to mitigate activity at the network level.
M1021 Restrict Web-Based
ContentWeb proxies can be used to enforce external network communication policy that prevents use of
unauthorized external services.[32]
[33]
[34]
[35]
[36]
[37]
[38]
[23]
[3]
[39]
[37]
[40]
[41]
[42][43][44]
[45][46]
[3]
[47]
[48][49]
[50]
[51]
[52][53]3/22/24, 3:52 PM Web Service: Bidirectional Communication, Sub-technique T1102.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1102/002/ 6/8Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0029 Network TraﬃcNetwork
Connection
CreationMonitor for newly constructed network connections that are sent or received by
untrusted hosts.
Network Traﬃc
ContentMonitor and analyze traﬃc patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that
do not follow the expected protocol standards and traﬃc ﬂows (e.g extraneous packets
that do not belong to established ﬂows, gratuitous or anomalous traﬃc patterns,
anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and
command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments
associated to traﬃc patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of ﬁles that do not normally
initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).
Network Traﬃc
FlowMonitor network data for uncommon data ﬂows. Processes utilizing the network that do
not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are
suspicious.3/22/24, 3:52 PM Web Service: Bidirectional Communication, Sub-technique T1102.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1102/002/ 7/8References
1. Meyers, A. (2013, March 29). Whois Numbered Panda.
Retrieved January 14, 2016.
2. Hacquebord, F., Remorin, L. (2020, December 17). Pawn
Storm’s Lack of Sophistication as a Strategy. Retrieved
January 13, 2021.
3. FireEye. (2018, February 20). APT37 (Reaper): The Overlooked
North Korean Actor. Retrieved March 1, 2018.
4. Mercer, W., Rascagneres, P. (2018, January 16). Korea In The
Crosshairs. Retrieved May 21, 2018.
5. Rusu, B. (2020, May 21). Iranian Chafer APT Targeted Air
Transportation and Government in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia.
Retrieved May 22, 2020.
. Settle, A., et al. (2016, August 8). MONSOON - Analysis Of An
APT Campaign. Retrieved September 22, 2016.
7. Levene, B. et al.. (2018, March 7). Patchwork Continues to
Deliver BADNEWS to the Indian Subcontinent. Retrieved March
31, 2018.
. Lunghi, D., et al. (2017, December). Untangling the Patchwork
Cyberespionage Group. Retrieved July 10, 2018.
9. FireEye Labs/FireEye Threat Intelligence. (2015, May 14).
Hiding in Plain Sight: FireEye and Microsoft Expose
Obfuscation Tactic. Retrieved January 22, 2016.
10. FireEye. (2018, March 16). Suspected Chinese Cyber
Espionage Group (TEMP.Periscope) Targeting U.S. Engineering
and Maritime Industries. Retrieved April 11, 2018.
11. Cash, D., Grunzweig, J., Meltzer, M., Adair, S., Lancaster, T.
(2021, August 17). North Korean APT InkySquid Infects
Victims Using Browser Exploits. Retrieved September 30,
2021.
12. CheckPoint Research. (2021, July 1). IndigoZebra APT
continues to attack Central Asia with evolving tools. Retrieved
September 24, 2021.
13. Mandiant. (n.d.). APT1 Exposing One of China’s Cyber
Espionage Units. Retrieved July 18, 2016.
14. Mandiant. (n.d.). Appendix C (Digital) - The Malware Arsenal.
Retrieved July 18, 2016.
15. Griﬃn, N. (2017, January 17). CARBANAK GROUP USES
GOOG LE FOR MALWARE COMMAND-AND-CONTROL.
Retrieved February 15, 2017.
1. Lunghi, D. et al. (2020, February). Uncovering DRBControl.
Retrieved November 12, 2021.
17. Chen, T. and Chen, Z. (2020, February 17). CLAMBLING - A
New Backdoor Base On Dropbox. Retrieved November 12,
2021.
1. F-Secure Labs. (2015, September 17). The Dukes: 7 years of
Russian cyberespionage. Retrieved December 10, 2015.
19. Grunzweig, J. (2018, January 31). Comnie Continues to Target
Organizations in East Asia. Retrieved June 7, 2018.
20. Faou, M. (2020, May). From Agent.btz to ComRAT v4: A ten-
year journey. Retrieved June 15, 2020.
21. CISA. (2020, October 29). Malware Analysis Report (AR20-
303A). Retrieved December 9, 2020.
22. F-Secure Labs. (2015, April 22). CozyDuke: Malware Analysis.
Retrieved December 10, 2015.
23. Microsoft. (2022, June 2). Exposing POLONIUM activity and
infrastructure targeting Israeli organizations. Retrieved July 1,
2022.
24. Faou, M. (2020, December 2). Turla Crutch: Keeping the “back
door” open. Retrieved December 4, 2020.2. CyberESI. (2011). TROJAN.GTALK. Retrieved June 29, 2015.
29. Abramov, D. (2020, April 13). Grandoreiro Malware Now
Targeting Banks in Spain. Retrieved November 12, 2020.
30. ESET. (2020, April 28). Grandoreiro: How engorged can an EXE
get?. Retrieved November 13, 2020.
31. Levene, B, et al. (2017, May 03). Kazuar: Multiplatform
Espionage Backdoor with API Access. Retrieved July 17, 2018.
32. An, J and Malhotra, A. (2021, November 10). North Korean
attackers use malicious blogs to deliver malware to high-
proﬁle South Korean targets. Retrieved December 29, 2021.
33. Saini, A. and Hossein, J. (2022, January 27). North Korea’s
Lazarus APT leverages Windows Update client, GitHub in
latest campaign. Retrieved January 27, 2022.
34. FireEye Threat Intelligence. (2015, December 1). China-based
Cyber Threat Group Uses Dropbox for Malware
Communications and Targets Hong Kong Media Outlets.
Retrieved December 4, 2015.
35. Lee, B. and Falcone, R. (2017, February 15). Magic Hound
Campaign Attacks Saudi Targets. Retrieved December 27,
2017.
3. Mele, G. et al. (2021, February 10). Probable Iranian Cyber
Actors, Static Kitten, Conducting Cyberespionage Campaign
Targeting UAE and Kuwait Government Agencies. Retrieved
March 17, 2021.
37. Faou, M., Tartare, M., Dupuy, T. (2019, October). OPERATION
GHOST. Retrieved September 23, 2020.
3. Axel F, Pierre T. (2017, October 16). Leviathan: Espionage actor
spearphishes maritime and defense targets. Retrieved
February 15, 2018.
39. Faou, M. and Dumont R.. (2019, May 29). A dive into Turla
PowerShell usage. Retrieved June 14, 2019.
40. Gannon, M. (2019, February 11). With Upgrades in Delivery
and Support Infrastructure, Revenge RAT Malware is a Bigger
Threat. Retrieved May 1, 2019.
41. Lee, B., Falcone, R. (2019, January 18). DarkHydrus delivers
new Trojan that can use Google Drive for C2 communications.
Retrieved April 17, 2019.
42. Mercer, W., Rascagneres, P. (2017, April 03). Introducing
ROKRAT. Retrieved May 21, 2018.
43. GReAT. (2019, May 13). ScarCruft continues to evolve,
introduces Bluetooth harvester. Retrieved June 4, 2019.
44. Cash, D., Grunzweig, J., Adair, S., Lancaster, T. (2021, August
25). North Korean BLUELIGHT Special: InkySquid Deploys
RokRAT. Retrieved October 1, 2021.
45. Cherepanov, A.. (2016, December 13). The rise of TeleBots:
Analyzing disruptive KillDisk attacks. Retrieved June 10, 2020.
4. Cherepanov, A.. (2017, June 30). TeleBots are back: Supply
chain attacks against Ukraine. Retrieved June 11, 2020.
47. NCSC GCHQ. (2022, January 27). Small Sieve Malware
Analysis Report. Retrieved August 22, 2022.
4. ESET, et al. (2018, January). Diplomats in Eastern Europe
bitten by a Turla mosquito. Retrieved July 3, 2018.
49. ESET Research. (2018, May 22). Turla Mosquito: A shift
towards more generic tools. Retrieved July 3, 2018.
50. Hayashi, K. (2017, November 28). UBoatRAT Navigates East
Asia. Retrieved January 12, 2018.
51. Schwarz, D., Sopko J. (2018, March 08). Donot Team
Leverages New Modular Malware Framework in South Asia.
Retrieved June 11, 2018.3/22/24, 3:52 PM Web Service: Bidirectional Communication, Sub-technique T1102.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1102/002/ 8/825. Grunzweig, J. (2018, October 01). NOKKI Almost Ties the Knot
with DOGCALL: Reaper Group Uses New Malware to Deploy
RAT. Retrieved November 5, 2018.
2. Schroeder, W., Warner, J., Nelson, M. (n.d.). Github
PowerShellEmpire. Retrieved April 28, 2016.
27. Carr, N., et al. (2018, August 01). On the Hunt for FIN7:
Pursuing an Enigmatic and Evasive Global Criminal Operation.
Retrieved August 23, 2018.52. Huntley, S. (2020, October 16). How We're Tackling Evolving
Online Threats. Retrieved March 24, 2021.
53. Singh, S. and Antil, S. (2020, October 27). APT-31 Leverages
COVID-19 Vaccine Theme and Abuses Legitimate Online
Services. Retrieved March 24, 2021.