3/22/24, 3:38 PM Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts: Startup Items, Sub-technique T1037.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1037/005/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:38 PM Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts: Startup Items, Sub-technique T1037.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1037/005/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts>Startup Items3/22/24, 3:38 PM Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts: Startup Items, Sub-technique T1037.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1037/005/ 3/4Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts: Startup Items
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0283 jRAT jRAT can list and manage startup entries.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1022 Restrict File and Directory
PermissionsSince StartupItems are deprecated, preventing all users from writing to the
/Library/StartupItems directory would prevent any startup items from getting registered.Adversaries may use startup items automatically executed at boot initialization to establish persistence. Startup items execute during the
ﬁnal phase of the boot process and contain shell scripts or other executable ﬁles along with conﬁguration information used by the system to
determine the execution order for all startup items.
This is technically a deprecated technology (superseded by Launch Daemon), and thus the appropriate folder, /Library/StartupItems isn’t
guaranteed to exist on the system by default, but does appear to exist by default on macOS Sierra. A startup item is a directory whose
executable and conﬁguration property list (plist), StartupParameters.plist , reside in the top-level directory.
An adversary can create the appropriate folders/ﬁles in the StartupItems directory to register their own persistence mechanism.
Additionally, since StartupItems run during the bootup phase of macOS, they will run as the elevated root user.Other sub-techniques of Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts (5)
[1]
[2]
Version PermalinkID: T1037.005
Sub-technique of:  T1037

Tactics: Persistence, Privilege Escalation

Platforms: macOS

Permissions Required: Administrator
Version: 1.0
Created: 15 January 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 20 April 2022
[3]3/22/24, 3:38 PM Boot or Logon Initialization Scripts: Startup Items, Sub-technique T1037.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1037/005/ 4/4Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments for logon scripts
DS0022 File File Creation Monitor for newly constructed ﬁles by unusual accounts outside of normal administration
duties
File Modiﬁcation Monitor for changes made to ﬁles for unexpected modiﬁcations to /Library/StartupItem
folder
DS0009 Process Process Creation Monitor for newly constructed processes and/or command-lines that execute during the
boot up process to check for unusual or unknown applications and behavior
References
1. Apple. (2016, September 13). Startup Items. Retrieved July 11,
2017.
2. Patrick Wardle. (2014, September). Methods of Malware
Persistence on Mac OS X. Retrieved July 5, 2017.3. Kamluk, V. & Gostev, A. (2016, February). Adwind - A Cross-
Platform RAT. Retrieved April 23, 2019.