3/22/24, 3:32 PM Lateral Movement, Tactic TA0008 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0008/ 1/5Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Lateral Movement, Tactic TA0008 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0008/ 2/5Home>Tactics>Enterprise>Lateral Movement3/22/24, 3:32 PM Lateral Movement, Tactic TA0008 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0008/ 3/5Lateral Movement
Techniques
Techniques: 9The adversary is trying to move through your environment.
Lateral Movement consists of techniques that adversaries use to enter and control remote systems on a network. Following through on their
primary objective often requires exploring the network to ﬁnd their target and subsequently gaining access to it. Reaching their objective
often involves pivoting through multiple systems and accounts to gain. Adversaries might install their own remote access tools to
accomplish Lateral Movement or use legitimate credentials with native network and operating system tools, which may be stealthier.
Version PermalinkID: TA0008
Created: 17 October 2018
Last Modiﬁed: 19 July 20193/22/24, 3:32 PM Lateral Movement, Tactic TA0008 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0008/ 4/5ID Name Description
T1210 Exploitation of
Remote ServicesAdversaries may exploit remote services to gain unauthorized access to internal systems once inside
of a network. Exploitation of a software vulnerability occurs when an adversary takes advantage of a
programming error in a program, service, or within the operating system software or kernel itself to
execute adversary-controlled code. A common goal for post-compromise exploitation of remote
services is for lateral movement to enable access to a remote system.
T1534 Internal
SpearphishingAdversaries may use internal spearphishing to gain access to additional information or exploit other
users within the same organization after they already have access to accounts or systems within the
environment. Internal spearphishing is multi-staged campaign where an email account is owned either
by controlling the user's device with previously installed malware or by compromising the account
credentials of the user. Adversaries attempt to take advantage of a trusted internal account to increase
the likelihood of tricking the target into falling for the phish attempt.
T1570 Lateral Tool
TransferAdversaries may transfer tools or other ﬁles between systems in a compromised environment. Once
brought into the victim environment (i.e., Ingress Tool Transfer) ﬁles may then be copied from one
system to another to stage adversary tools or other ﬁles over the course of an operation.
T1563 Remote Service
Session HijackingAdversaries may take control of preexisting sessions with remote services to move laterally in an
environment. Users may use valid credentials to log into a service speciﬁcally designed to accept
remote connections, such as telnet, SSH, and RDP. When a user logs into a service, a session will be
established that will allow them to maintain a continuous interaction with that service.
.001 SSH Hijacking Adversaries may hijack a legitimate user's SSH session to move laterally within an environment.
Secure Shell (SSH) is a standard means of remote access on Linux and macOS systems. It allows a
user to connect to another system via an encrypted tunnel, commonly authenticating through a
password, certiﬁcate or the use of an asymmetric encryption key pair.
.002 RDP Hijacking Adversaries may hijack a legitimate user’s remote desktop session to move laterally within an
environment. Remote desktop is a common feature in operating systems. It allows a user to log into an
interactive session with a system desktop graphical user interface on a remote system. Microsoft
refers to its implementation of the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) as Remote Desktop Services (RDS).
T1021 Remote Services Adversaries may use Valid Accounts to log into a service that accepts remote connections, such as
telnet, SSH, and VNC. The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user.
.001 Remote Desktop
ProtocolAdversaries may use Valid Accounts to log into a computer using the Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP).
The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user.
.002 SMB/Windows
Admin SharesAdversaries may use Valid Accounts to interact with a remote network share using Server Message
Block (SMB). The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user.
.003 Distributed
Component
Object ModelAdversaries may use Valid Accounts to interact with remote machines by taking advantage of
Distributed Component Object Model (DCOM). The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-
on user.
.004 SSH Adversaries may use Valid Accounts to log into remote machines using Secure Shell (SSH). The
adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user.
.005 VNC Adversaries may use Valid Accounts to remotely control machines using Virtual Network Computing
(VNC). VNC is a platform-independent desktop sharing system that uses the RFB ("remote
framebuffer") protocol to enable users to remotely control another computer’s display by relaying the
screen, mouse, and keyboard inputs over the network.
.006 Windows Remote
ManagementAdversaries may use Valid Accounts to interact with remote systems using Windows Remote
Management (WinRM). The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user.
.007 Cloud Services Adversaries may log into accessible cloud services within a compromised environment using Valid
Accounts that are synchronized with or federated to on-premises user identities. The adversary may
then perform management actions or access cloud-hosted resources as the logged-on user.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Lateral Movement, Tactic TA0008 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0008/ 5/5ID Name Description
.008 Direct Cloud VM
ConnectionsAdversaries may leverage Valid Accounts to log directly into accessible cloud hosted compute
infrastructure through cloud native methods. Many cloud providers offer interactive connections to
virtual infrastructure that can be accessed through the Cloud API, such as Azure Serial Console, AWS
EC2 Instance Connect, and AWS System Manager..
T1091 Replication
Through
Removable MediaAdversaries may move onto systems, possibly those on disconnected or air-gapped networks, by
copying malware to removable media and taking advantage of Autorun features when the media is
inserted into a system and executes. In the case of Lateral Movement, this may occur through
modiﬁcation of executable ﬁles stored on removable media or by copying malware and renaming it to
look like a legitimate ﬁle to trick users into executing it on a separate system. In the case of Initial
Access, this may occur through manual manipulation of the media, modiﬁcation of systems used to
initially format the media, or modiﬁcation to the media's ﬁrmware itself.
T1072 Software
Deployment ToolsAdversaries may gain access to and use third-party software suites installed within an enterprise
network, such as administration, monitoring, and deployment systems, to move laterally through the
network. Third-party applications and software deployment systems may be in use in the network
environment for administration purposes (e.g., SCCM, HBSS, Altiris, etc.).
T1080 Taint Shared
ContentAdversaries may deliver payloads to remote systems by adding content to shared storage locations,
such as network drives or internal code repositories. Content stored on network drives or in other
shared locations may be tainted by adding malicious programs, scripts, or exploit code to otherwise
valid ﬁles. Once a user opens the shared tainted content, the malicious portion can be executed to run
the adversary's code on a remote system. Adversaries may use tainted shared content to move
laterally.
T1550 Use Alternate
Authentication
MaterialAdversaries may use alternate authentication material, such as password hashes, Kerberos tickets,
and application access tokens, in order to move laterally within an environment and bypass normal
system access controls.
.001 Application
Access TokenAdversaries may use stolen application access tokens to bypass the typical authentication process
and access restricted accounts, information, or services on remote systems. These tokens are typically
stolen from users or services and used in lieu of login credentials.
.002 Pass the Hash Adversaries may "pass the hash" using stolen password hashes to move laterally within an
environment, bypassing normal system access controls. Pass the hash (PtH) is a method of
authenticating as a user without having access to the user's cleartext password. This method
bypasses standard authentication steps that require a cleartext password, moving directly into the
portion of the authentication that uses the password hash.
.003 Pass the Ticket Adversaries may "pass the ticket" using stolen Kerberos tickets to move laterally within an
environment, bypassing normal system access controls. Pass the ticket (PtT) is a method of
authenticating to a system using Kerberos tickets without having access to an account's password.
Kerberos authentication can be used as the ﬁrst step to lateral movement to a remote system.
.004 Web Session
CookieAdversaries can use stolen session cookies to authenticate to web applications and services. This
technique bypasses some multi-factor authentication protocols since the session is already
authenticated.