3/22/24, 3:41 PM Abuse Elevation Control Mechanism, Technique T1548 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/ 1/5Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:41 PM Abuse Elevation Control Mechanism, Technique T1548 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/ 2/5Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Abuse Elevation Control Mechanism3/22/24, 3:41 PM Abuse Elevation Control Mechanism, Technique T1548 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/ 3/5Abuse Elevation Control Mechanism
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1047 Audit Check for common UAC bypass weaknesses on Windows systems to be aware of the risk posture and
address issues where appropriate.
M1038 Execution
PreventionSystem settings can prevent applications from running that haven't been downloaded from legitimate
repositories which may help mitigate some of these issues. Not allowing unsigned applications from
being run may also mitigate some risk.
M1028 Operating System
ConﬁgurationApplications with known vulnerabilities or known shell escapes should not have the setuid or setgid
bits set to reduce potential damage if an application is compromised. Additionally, the number of
programs with setuid or setgid bits set should be minimized across a system. Ensuring that the sudo
tty\_tickets setting is enabled will prevent this leakage across tty sessions.
M1026 Privileged Account
ManagementRemove users from the local administrator group on systems.
By requiring a password, even if an adversary can get terminal access, they must know the password
to run anything in the sudoers ﬁle. Setting the timestamp\_timeout to 0 will require the user to input their
password every time sudo is executed.
M1022 Restrict File and
Directory
PermissionsThe sudoers ﬁle should be strictly edited such that passwords are always required and that users can't
spawn risky processes as users with higher privilege.
M1052 User Account
ControlAlthough UAC bypass techniques exist, it is still prudent to use the highest enforcement level for UAC
when possible and mitigate bypass opportunities that exist with techniques such as DLL Search Order
Hijacking.
M1018 User Account
ManagementLimit the privileges of cloud accounts to assume, create, or impersonate additional roles, policies, and
permissions to only those required. Where just-in-time access is enabled, consider requiring manual
approval for temporary elevation of privileges.Adversaries may circumvent mechanisms designed to control elevate privileges to gain higher-level permissions. Most modern systems
contain native elevation control mechanisms that are intended to limit privileges that a user can perform on a machine. Authorization has to
be granted to speciﬁc users in order to perform tasks that can be considered of higher risk. An adversary can perform several methods to
take advantage of built-in control mechanisms in order to escalate privileges on a system.Sub-techniques (5)
Version PermalinkID: T1548
Sub-techniques:  T1548.001, T1548.002, T1548.003, T1548.004, T1548.005

Tactics: Privilege Escalation, Defense Evasion

Platforms: Azure AD, Google Workspace, IaaS, Linux, Oﬃce 365, Windows, macOS

Permissions Required: Administrator, User
Version: 1.2
Created: 30 January 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 02 October 2023
[1]3/22/24, 3:41 PM Abuse Elevation Control Mechanism, Technique T1548 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/ 4/5Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that may circumvent mechanisms
designed to control elevate privileges to gain higher-level permissions.
DS0022 File File Metadata Monitor the ﬁle system for ﬁles that have the setuid or setgid bits set. On Linux, auditd
can alert every time a user's actual ID and effective ID are different (this is what
happens when you sudo).
File
ModiﬁcationOn Linux, auditd can alert every time a user's actual ID and effective ID are different
(this is what happens when you sudo). This technique is abusing normal functionality
in macOS and Linux systems, but sudo has the ability to log all input and output
based on the LOG\_INPUT and LOG\_OUTPUT directives in the /etc/sudoers ﬁle.
Consider monitoring for /usr/libexec/security\_authtrampoline executions which
may indicate that AuthorizationExecuteWithPrivileges is being executed. MacOS
system logs may also indicate when AuthorizationExecuteWithPrivileges is being
called.
DS0009 Process OS API
ExecutionAlso look for any process API calls for behavior that may be indicative of Process
Injection. Monitoring OS API callbacks for the execution can also be a way to detect
this behavior but requires specialized security tooling.
Process
CreationMonitor for newly executed processes that may circumvent mechanisms designed to
control elevate privileges to gain higher-level permissions. Cyber actors frequently
escalate to the SYSTEM account after gaining entry to a Windows host, to enable
them to carry out various attacks more effectively. Tools such as Meterpreter, Cobalt
Strike, and Empire carry out automated steps to "Get System", which is the same as
switching over to the System user account. Most of these tools utilize multiple
techniques to try and attain SYSTEM: in the ﬁrst technique, they create a named pipe
and connects an instance of cmd.exe to it, which allows them to impersonate the
security context of cmd.exe, which is SYSTEM. In the second technique, a malicious
DLL is injected into a process that is running as SYSTEM; the injected DLL steals the
SYSTEM token and applies it where necessary to escalate privileges. This analytic
looks for both of these techniques.
Analytic 1 : Get System Elevation
suspicious\_processes = filter processes where ( (parent\_image\_path ==
C:\Windows\System32\services.exe" AND image\_path ==
"C:\Windows\System32\cmd.exe" AND command\_line == " echo" AND
command\_line == " \pipe\*") OR (image\_path ==
"C:\Windows\System32\rundll32.exe" AND command\_line == " ,a /p:\*"))
Process
MetadataMonitor contextual data about a running process, which may include information such
as environment variables, image name, user/owner that may circumvent mechanisms
designed to control elevate privileges to gain higher-level permissions.
DS0002 User Account User Account
ModiﬁcationLog cloud API calls to assume, create, or impersonate additional roles, policies, and
permissions. Review uses of just-in-time access to ensure that any justiﬁcations
provided are valid and only expected actions were taken.
DS0024 Windows RegistryWindows
Registry Key
ModiﬁcationThere are many ways to perform UAC bypasses when a user is in the local
administrator group on a system, so it may be diﬃcult to target detection on all
variations. Efforts should likely be placed on mitigation and collecting enough
information on process launches and actions that could be performed before and after
a UAC bypass is performed. Some UAC bypass methods rely on modifying speciﬁc,
user-accessible Registry settings. Analysts should monitor Registry settings for
unauthorized changes.3/22/24, 3:41 PM Abuse Elevation Control Mechanism, Technique T1548 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1548/ 5/5References
1. UACME Project. (2016, June 16). UACMe. Retrieved July 26,
2016.