3/22/24, 3:32 PM Credential Access, Tactic TA0006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0006/ 1/9Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Credential Access, Tactic TA0006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0006/ 2/9Home>Tactics>Enterprise>Credential Access3/22/24, 3:32 PM Credential Access, Tactic TA0006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0006/ 3/9Credential Access
Techniques
Techniques: 17The adversary is trying to steal account names and passwords.
Credential Access consists of techniques for stealing credentials like account names and passwords. Techniques used to get credentials
include keylogging or credential dumping. Using legitimate credentials can give adversaries access to systems, make them harder to detect,
and provide the opportunity to create more accounts to help achieve their goals.
Version PermalinkID: TA0006
Created: 17 October 2018
Last Modiﬁed: 19 July 20193/22/24, 3:32 PM Credential Access, Tactic TA0006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0006/ 4/9ID Name Description
T1557 Adversary-in-the-
MiddleAdversaries may attempt to position themselves between two or more networked devices using an
adversary-in-the-middle (AiTM) technique to support follow-on behaviors such as Network Sniﬃng,
Transmitted Data Manipulation, or replay attacks (Exploitation for Credential Access). By abusing
features of common networking protocols that can determine the ﬂow of network traﬃc (e.g. ARP,
DNS, LLMNR, etc.), adversaries may force a device to communicate through an adversary controlled
system so they can collect information or perform additional actions.
.001 LLMNR/NBT-NS
Poisoning and
SMB RelayBy responding to LLMNR/NBT-NS network traﬃc, adversaries may spoof an authoritative source for
name resolution to force communication with an adversary controlled system. This activity may be
used to collect or relay authentication materials.
.002 ARP Cache
PoisoningAdversaries may poison Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) caches to position themselves between
the communication of two or more networked devices. This activity may be used to enable follow-on
behaviors such as Network Sniﬃng or Transmitted Data Manipulation.
.003 DHCP Spooﬁng Adversaries may redirect network traﬃc to adversary-owned systems by spooﬁng Dynamic Host
Conﬁguration Protocol (DHCP) traﬃc and acting as a malicious DHCP server on the victim network. By
achieving the adversary-in-the-middle (AiTM) position, adversaries may collect network
communications, including passed credentials, especially those sent over insecure, unencrypted
protocols. This may also enable follow-on behaviors such as Network Sniﬃng or Transmitted Data
Manipulation.
T1110 Brute Force Adversaries may use brute force techniques to gain access to accounts when passwords are unknown
or when password hashes are obtained. Without knowledge of the password for an account or set of
accounts, an adversary may systematically guess the password using a repetitive or iterative
mechanism. Brute forcing passwords can take place via interaction with a service that will check the
validity of those credentials or oﬄine against previously acquired credential data, such as password
hashes.
.001 Password
GuessingAdversaries with no prior knowledge of legitimate credentials within the system or environment may
guess passwords to attempt access to accounts. Without knowledge of the password for an account,
an adversary may opt to systematically guess the password using a repetitive or iterative mechanism.
An adversary may guess login credentials without prior knowledge of system or environment
passwords during an operation by using a list of common passwords. Password guessing may or
may not take into account the target's policies on password complexity or use policies that may lock
accounts out after a number of failed attempts.
.002 Password
CrackingAdversaries may use password cracking to attempt to recover usable credentials, such as plaintext
passwords, when credential material such as password hashes are obtained. OS Credential Dumping
can be used to obtain password hashes, this may only get an adversary so far when Pass the Hash is
not an option. Further, adversaries may leverage Data from Conﬁguration Repository in order to obtain
hashed credentials for network devices.
.003 Password
SprayingAdversaries may use a single or small list of commonly used passwords against many different
accounts to attempt to acquire valid account credentials. Password spraying uses one password (e.g.
'Password01'), or a small list of commonly used passwords, that may match the complexity policy of
the domain. Logins are attempted with that password against many different accounts on a network
to avoid account lockouts that would normally occur when brute forcing a single account with many
passwords.
.004 Credential
StuﬃngAdversaries may use credentials obtained from breach dumps of unrelated accounts to gain access to
target accounts through credential overlap. Occasionally, large numbers of username and password
pairs are dumped online when a website or service is compromised and the user account credentials
accessed. The information may be useful to an adversary attempting to compromise accounts by
taking advantage of the tendency for users to use the same passwords across personal and business
accounts.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Credential Access, Tactic TA0006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0006/ 5/9ID Name Description
T1555 Credentials from
Password StoresAdversaries may search for common password storage locations to obtain user credentials.
Passwords are stored in several places on a system, depending on the operating system or application
holding the credentials. There are also speciﬁc applications and services that store passwords to
make them easier for users to manage and maintain, such as password managers and cloud secrets
vaults. Once credentials are obtained, they can be used to perform lateral movement and access
restricted information.
.001 Keychain Adversaries may acquire credentials from Keychain. Keychain (or Keychain Services) is the macOS
credential management system that stores account names, passwords, private keys, certiﬁcates,
sensitive application data, payment data, and secure notes. There are three types of Keychains: Login
Keychain, System Keychain, and Local Items (iCloud) Keychain. The default Keychain is the Login
Keychain, which stores user passwords and information. The System Keychain stores items accessed
by the operating system, such as items shared among users on a host. The Local Items (iCloud)
Keychain is used for items synced with Apple’s iCloud service.
.002 Securityd Memory An adversary may obtain root access (allowing them to read securityd’s memory), then they can scan
through memory to ﬁnd the correct sequence of keys in relatively few tries to decrypt the user’s logon
keychain. This provides the adversary with all the plaintext passwords for users, WiFi, mail, browsers,
certiﬁcates, secure notes, etc.
.003 Credentials from
Web BrowsersAdversaries may acquire credentials from web browsers by reading ﬁles speciﬁc to the target browser.
Web browsers commonly save credentials such as website usernames and passwords so that they do
not need to be entered manually in the future. Web browsers typically store the credentials in an
encrypted format within a credential store; however, methods exist to extract plaintext credentials from
web browsers.
.004 Windows
Credential
ManagerAdversaries may acquire credentials from the Windows Credential Manager. The Credential Manager
stores credentials for signing into websites, applications, and/or devices that request authentication
through NTLM or Kerberos in Credential Lockers (previously known as Windows Vaults).
.005 Password
ManagersAdversaries may acquire user credentials from third-party password managers. Password managers
are applications designed to store user credentials, normally in an encrypted database. Credentials are
typically accessible after a user provides a master password that unlocks the database. After the
database is unlocked, these credentials may be copied to memory. These databases can be stored as
ﬁles on disk.
.006 Cloud Secrets
Management
StoresAdversaries may acquire credentials from cloud-native secret management solutions such as AWS
Secrets Manager, GCP Secret Manager, Azure Key Vault, and Terraform Vault.
T1212 Exploitation for
Credential AccessAdversaries may exploit software vulnerabilities in an attempt to collect credentials. Exploitation of a
software vulnerability occurs when an adversary takes advantage of a programming error in a
program, service, or within the operating system software or kernel itself to execute adversary-
controlled code. 
T1187 Forced
AuthenticationAdversaries may gather credential material by invoking or forcing a user to automatically provide
authentication information through a mechanism in which they can intercept.
T1606 Forge Web
CredentialsAdversaries may forge credential materials that can be used to gain access to web applications or
Internet services. Web applications and services (hosted in cloud SaaS environments or on-premise
servers) often use session cookies, tokens, or other materials to authenticate and authorize user
access.
.001 Web Cookies Adversaries may forge web cookies that can be used to gain access to web applications or Internet
services. Web applications and services (hosted in cloud SaaS environments or on-premise servers)
often use session cookies to authenticate and authorize user access.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Credential Access, Tactic TA0006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0006/ 6/9ID Name Description
.002 SAML Tokens An adversary may forge SAML tokens with any permissions claims and lifetimes if they possess a
valid SAML token-signing certiﬁcate. The default lifetime of a SAML token is one hour, but the validity
period can be speciﬁed in the NotOnOrAfter value of the conditions ... element in a token. This
value can be changed using the AccessTokenLifetime in a LifetimeTokenPolicy . Forged SAML
tokens enable adversaries to authenticate across services that use SAML 2.0 as an SSO (single sign-
on) mechanism.
T1056 Input Capture Adversaries may use methods of capturing user input to obtain credentials or collect information.
During normal system usage, users often provide credentials to various different locations, such as
login pages/portals or system dialog boxes. Input capture mechanisms may be transparent to the user
(e.g. Credential API Hooking) or rely on deceiving the user into providing input into what they believe to
be a genuine service (e.g. Web Portal Capture).
.001 Keylogging Adversaries may log user keystrokes to intercept credentials as the user types them. Keylogging is
likely to be used to acquire credentials for new access opportunities when OS Credential Dumping
efforts are not effective, and may require an adversary to intercept keystrokes on a system for a
substantial period of time before credentials can be successfully captured. In order to increase the
likelihood of capturing credentials quickly, an adversary may also perform actions such as clearing
browser cookies to force users to reauthenticate to systems.
.002 GUI Input Capture Adversaries may mimic common operating system GUI components to prompt users for credentials
with a seemingly legitimate prompt. When programs are executed that need additional privileges than
are present in the current user context, it is common for the operating system to prompt the user for
proper credentials to authorize the elevated privileges for the task (ex: Bypass User Account Control).
.003 Web Portal
CaptureAdversaries may install code on externally facing portals, such as a VPN login page, to capture and
transmit credentials of users who attempt to log into the service. For example, a compromised login
page may log provided user credentials before logging the user in to the service.
.004 Credential API
HookingAdversaries may hook into Windows application programming interface (API) functions to collect user
credentials. Malicious hooking mechanisms may capture API calls that include parameters that reveal
user authentication credentials. Unlike Keylogging, this technique focuses speciﬁcally on API
functions that include parameters that reveal user credentials. Hooking involves redirecting calls to
these functions and can be implemented via:
T1556 Modify
Authentication
ProcessAdversaries may modify authentication mechanisms and processes to access user credentials or
enable otherwise unwarranted access to accounts. The authentication process is handled by
mechanisms, such as the Local Security Authentication Server (LSASS) process and the Security
Accounts Manager (SAM) on Windows, pluggable authentication modules (PAM) on Unix-based
systems, and authorization plugins on MacOS systems, responsible for gathering, storing, and
validating credentials. By modifying an authentication process, an adversary may be able to
authenticate to a service or system without using Valid Accounts.
.001 Domain Controller
AuthenticationAdversaries may patch the authentication process on a domain controller to bypass the typical
authentication mechanisms and enable access to accounts.
.002 Password Filter
DLLAdversaries may register malicious password ﬁlter dynamic link libraries (DLLs) into the
authentication process to acquire user credentials as they are validated.
.003 Pluggable
Authentication
ModulesAdversaries may modify pluggable authentication modules (PAM) to access user credentials or enable
otherwise unwarranted access to accounts. PAM is a modular system of conﬁguration ﬁles, libraries,
and executable ﬁles which guide authentication for many services. The most common authentication
module is pam\_unix.so , which retrieves, sets, and veriﬁes account authentication information in
/etc/passwd and /etc/shadow .
.004 Network Device
AuthenticationAdversaries may use Patch System Image to hard code a password in the operating system, thus
bypassing of native authentication mechanisms for local accounts on network devices.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Credential Access, Tactic TA0006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0006/ 7/9ID Name Description
.005 Reversible
EncryptionAn adversary may abuse Active Directory authentication encryption properties to gain access to
credentials on Windows systems. The AllowReversiblePasswordEncryption property speciﬁes
whether reversible password encryption for an account is enabled or disabled. By default this property
is disabled (instead storing user credentials as the output of one-way hashing functions) and should
not be enabled unless legacy or other software require it.
.006 Multi-Factor
AuthenticationAdversaries may disable or modify multi-factor authentication (MFA) mechanisms to enable persistent
access to compromised accounts.
.007 Hybrid Identity Adversaries may patch, modify, or otherwise backdoor cloud authentication processes that are tied to
on-premises user identities in order to bypass typical authentication mechanisms, access credentials,
and enable persistent access to accounts.
.008 Network Provider
DLLAdversaries may register malicious network provider dynamic link libraries (DLLs) to capture cleartext
user credentials during the authentication process. Network provider DLLs allow Windows to interface
with speciﬁc network protocols and can also support add-on credential management functions.
During the logon process, Winlogon (the interactive logon module) sends credentials to the local
mpnotify.exe process via RPC. The mpnotify.exe process then shares the credentials in cleartext
with registered credential managers when notifying that a logon event is happening.
T1111 Multi-Factor
Authentication
InterceptionAdversaries may target multi-factor authentication (MFA) mechanisms, (i.e., smart cards, token
generators, etc.) to gain access to credentials that can be used to access systems, services, and
network resources. Use of MFA is recommended and provides a higher level of security than
usernames and passwords alone, but organizations should be aware of techniques that could be used
to intercept and bypass these security mechanisms.
T1621 Multi-Factor
Authentication
Request
GenerationAdversaries may attempt to bypass multi-factor authentication (MFA) mechanisms and gain access to
accounts by generating MFA requests sent to users.
T1040 Network Sniﬃng Adversaries may sniff network traﬃc to capture information about an environment, including
authentication material passed over the network. Network sniﬃng refers to using the network interface
on a system to monitor or capture information sent over a wired or wireless connection. An adversary
may place a network interface into promiscuous mode to passively access data in transit over the
network, or use span ports to capture a larger amount of data.
T1003 OS Credential
DumpingAdversaries may attempt to dump credentials to obtain account login and credential material,
normally in the form of a hash or a clear text password, from the operating system and software.
Credentials can then be used to perform Lateral Movement and access restricted information.
.001 LSASS Memory Adversaries may attempt to access credential material stored in the process memory of the Local
Security Authority Subsystem Service (LSASS). After a user logs on, the system generates and stores a
variety of credential materials in LSASS process memory. These credential materials can be harvested
by an administrative user or SYSTEM and used to conduct Lateral Movement using Use Alternate
Authentication Material.
.002 Security Account
ManagerAdversaries may attempt to extract credential material from the Security Account Manager (SAM)
database either through in-memory techniques or through the Windows Registry where the SAM
database is stored. The SAM is a database ﬁle that contains local accounts for the host, typically
those found with the net user command. Enumerating the SAM database requires SYSTEM level
access.
.003 NTDS Adversaries may attempt to access or create a copy of the Active Directory domain database in order
to steal credential information, as well as obtain other information about domain members such as
devices, users, and access rights. By default, the NTDS ﬁle (NTDS.dit) is located in
%SystemRoot%\NTDS\Ntds.dit of a domain controller.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Credential Access, Tactic TA0006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0006/ 8/9ID Name Description
.004 LSA Secrets Adversaries with SYSTEM access to a host may attempt to access Local Security Authority (LSA)
secrets, which can contain a variety of different credential materials, such as credentials for service
accounts. LSA secrets are stored in the registry at HKEY\_LOCAL\_MACHINE\SECURITY\Policy\Secrets .
LSA secrets can also be dumped from memory.
.005 Cached Domain
CredentialsAdversaries may attempt to access cached domain credentials used to allow authentication to occur
in the event a domain controller is unavailable.
.006 DCSync Adversaries may attempt to access credentials and other sensitive information by abusing a Windows
Domain Controller's application programming interface (API) to simulate the replication process from
a remote domain controller using a technique called DCSync.
.007 Proc Filesystem Adversaries may gather credentials from the proc ﬁlesystem or /proc . The proc ﬁlesystem is a
pseudo-ﬁlesystem used as an interface to kernel data structures for Linux based systems managing
virtual memory. For each process, the /proc//maps ﬁle shows how memory is mapped within
the process’s virtual address space. And /proc//mem , exposed for debugging purposes,
provides access to the process’s virtual address space.
.008 /etc/passwd and
/etc/shadowAdversaries may attempt to dump the contents of /etc/passwd and /etc/shadow to enable oﬄine
password cracking. Most modern Linux operating systems use a combination of /etc/passwd and
/etc/shadow to store user account information including password hashes in /etc/shadow . By
default, /etc/shadow is only readable by the root user.
T1528 Steal Application
Access TokenAdversaries can steal application access tokens as a means of acquiring credentials to access remote
systems and resources.
T1649 Steal or Forge
Authentication
CertiﬁcatesAdversaries may steal or forge certiﬁcates used for authentication to access remote systems or
resources. Digital certiﬁcates are often used to sign and encrypt messages and/or ﬁles. Certiﬁcates
are also used as authentication material. For example, Azure AD device certiﬁcates and Active
Directory Certiﬁcate Services (AD CS) certiﬁcates bind to an identity and can be used as credentials for
domain accounts.
T1558 Steal or Forge
Kerberos TicketsAdversaries may attempt to subvert Kerberos authentication by stealing or forging Kerberos tickets to
enable Pass the Ticket. Kerberos is an authentication protocol widely used in modern Windows
domain environments. In Kerberos environments, referred to as "realms", there are three basic
participants: client, service, and Key Distribution Center (KDC). Clients request access to a service and
through the exchange of Kerberos tickets, originating from KDC, they are granted access after having
successfully authenticated. The KDC is responsible for both authentication and ticket granting.
Adversaries may attempt to abuse Kerberos by stealing tickets or forging tickets to enable
unauthorized access.
.001 Golden Ticket Adversaries who have the KRBTGT account password hash may forge Kerberos ticket-granting tickets
(TGT), also known as a golden ticket. Golden tickets enable adversaries to generate authentication
material for any account in Active Directory.
.002 Silver Ticket Adversaries who have the password hash of a target service account (e.g. SharePoint, MSSQL) may
forge Kerberos ticket granting service (TGS) tickets, also known as silver tickets. Kerberos TGS tickets
are also known as service tickets.
.003 Kerberoasting Adversaries may abuse a valid Kerberos ticket-granting ticket (TGT) or sniff network traﬃc to obtain a
ticket-granting service (TGS) ticket that may be vulnerable to Brute Force.
.004 AS-REP Roasting Adversaries may reveal credentials of accounts that have disabled Kerberos preauthentication by
Password Cracking Kerberos messages.
T1539 Steal Web
Session CookieAn adversary may steal web application or service session cookies and use them to gain access to
web applications or Internet services as an authenticated user without needing credentials. Web
applications and services often use session cookies as an authentication token after a user has
authenticated to a website.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Credential Access, Tactic TA0006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0006/ 9/9ID Name Description
T1552 Unsecured
CredentialsAdversaries may search compromised systems to ﬁnd and obtain insecurely stored credentials. These
credentials can be stored and/or misplaced in many locations on a system, including plaintext ﬁles
(e.g. Bash History), operating system or application-speciﬁc repositories (e.g. Credentials in Registry),
or other specialized ﬁles/artifacts (e.g. Private Keys).
.001 Credentials In
FilesAdversaries may search local ﬁle systems and remote ﬁle shares for ﬁles containing insecurely stored
credentials. These can be ﬁles created by users to store their own credentials, shared credential stores
for a group of individuals, conﬁguration ﬁles containing passwords for a system or service, or source
code/binary ﬁles containing embedded passwords.
.002 Credentials in
RegistryAdversaries may search the Registry on compromised systems for insecurely stored credentials. The
Windows Registry stores conﬁguration information that can be used by the system or other programs.
Adversaries may query the Registry looking for credentials and passwords that have been stored for
use by other programs or services. Sometimes these credentials are used for automatic logons.
.003 Bash History Adversaries may search the bash command history on compromised systems for insecurely stored
credentials. Bash keeps track of the commands users type on the command-line with the "history"
utility. Once a user logs out, the history is ﬂushed to the user’s .bash\_history ﬁle. For each user, this
ﬁle resides at the same location: ~/.bash\_history . Typically, this ﬁle keeps track of the user’s last
500 commands. Users often type usernames and passwords on the command-line as parameters to
programs, which then get saved to this ﬁle when they log out. Adversaries can abuse this by looking
through the ﬁle for potential credentials.
.004 Private Keys Adversaries may search for private key certiﬁcate ﬁles on compromised systems for insecurely stored
credentials. Private cryptographic keys and certiﬁcates are used for authentication,
encryption/decryption, and digital signatures. Common key and certiﬁcate ﬁle extensions include: .key,
.pgp, .gpg, .ppk., .p12, .pem, .pfx, .cer, .p7b, .asc.
.005 Cloud Instance
Metadata APIAdversaries may attempt to access the Cloud Instance Metadata API to collect credentials and other
sensitive data.
.006 Group Policy
PreferencesAdversaries may attempt to ﬁnd unsecured credentials in Group Policy Preferences (GPP). GPP are
tools that allow administrators to create domain policies with embedded credentials. These policies
allow administrators to set local accounts.
.007 Container API Adversaries may gather credentials via APIs within a containers environment. APIs in these
environments, such as the Docker API and Kubernetes APIs, allow a user to remotely manage their
container resources and cluster components.
.008 Chat Messages Adversaries may directly collect unsecured credentials stored or passed through user communication
services. Credentials may be sent and stored in user chat communication applications such as email,
chat services like Slack or Teams, collaboration tools like Jira or Trello, and any other services that
support user communication. Users may share various forms of credentials (such as usernames and
passwords, API keys, or authentication tokens) on private or public corporate internal communications
channels.