3/22/24, 3:39 PM Create or Modify System Process: Windows Service, Sub-technique T1543.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/003/ 1/17Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:39 PM Create or Modify System Process: Windows Service, Sub-technique T1543.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/003/ 2/17Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Create or Modify System Process>Windows Service3/22/24, 3:39 PM Create or Modify System Process: Windows Service, Sub-technique T1543.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/003/ 3/17Create or Modify System Process: Windows Service
Adversaries may create or modify Windows services to repeatedly execute malicious payloads as part of persistence. When Windows boots
up, it starts programs or applications called services that perform background system functions. Windows service conﬁguration
information, including the ﬁle path to the service's executable or recovery programs/commands, is stored in the Windows Registry.
Adversaries may install a new service or modify an existing service to execute at startup in order to persist on a system. Service
conﬁgurations can be set or modiﬁed using system utilities (such as sc.exe), by directly modifying the Registry, or by interacting directly with
the Windows API.
Adversaries may also use services to install and execute malicious drivers. For example, after dropping a driver ﬁle (ex: .sys ) to disk, the
payload can be loaded and registered via Native API functions such as CreateServiceW() (or manually via functions such as
ZwLoadDriver() and ZwSetValueKey() ), by creating the required service Registry values (i.e. Modify Registry), or by using command-line
utilities such as PnPUtil.exe . Adversaries may leverage these drivers as Rootkits to hide the presence of malicious activity on a
system. Adversaries may also load a signed yet vulnerable driver onto a compromised machine (known as "Bring Your Own Vulnerable
Driver" (BYOVD)) as part of Exploitation for Privilege Escalation.
Services may be created with administrator privileges but are executed under SYSTEM privileges, so an adversary may also use a service to
escalate privileges. Adversaries may also directly start services through Service Execution. To make detection analysis more challenging,
malicious services may also incorporate Masquerade Task or Service (ex: using a service and/or payload name related to a legitimate OS or
benign software component).Other sub-techniques of Create or Modify System Process (4)
[1]
[2][3][4]
[5][4]
Version PermalinkID: T1543.003
Sub-technique of:  T1543

Tactics: Persistence, Privilege Escalation

Platforms: Windows

Effective Permissions: Administrator, SYSTEM
Contributors: Akshat Pradhan, Qualys; Matthew Demaske, Adaptforward; Mayuresh Dani, Qualys; Pedro Harrison; Wietze Beukema,
@wietze
Version: 1.4
Created: 17 January 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 15 September 20233/22/24, 3:39 PM Create or Modify System Process: Windows Service, Sub-technique T1543.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/003/ 4/17Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
C0025 2016 Ukraine Electric
Power AttackDuring the 2016 Ukraine Electric Power Attack, Sandworm Team used an arbitrary system service to
load at system boot for persistence for Industroyer. They also replaced the ImagePath registry value
of a Windows service with a new backdoor binary. 
S0504 Anchor Anchor can establish persistence by creating a service.
S0584 AppleJeus AppleJeus can install itself as a service.
G0073 APT19 An APT19 Port 22 malware variant registers itself as a service.
G0022 APT3 APT3 has a tool that creates a new service for persistence.
G0050 APT32 APT32 modiﬁed Windows Services to ensure PowerShell scripts were loaded on the system. APT32
also creates a Windows service to establish persistence.
G0082 APT38 APT38 has installed a new Windows service to establish persistence.
G0096 APT41 APT41 modiﬁed legitimate Windows services to install malware backdoors. APT41 created the
StorSyncSvc service to provide persistence for Cobalt Strike.
S0438 Attor Attor's dispatcher can establish persistence by registering a new service.
S0347 AuditCred AuditCred is installed as a new service on the system.
S0239 Bankshot Bankshot can terminate a speciﬁc process by its process id.
S0127 BBSRAT BBSRAT can modify service conﬁgurations.
S0268 Bisonal Bisonal has been modiﬁed to be used as a Windows service.
S0570 BitPaymer BitPaymer has attempted to install itself as a service to maintain persistence.
S1070 Black Basta Black Basta can create a new service to establish persistence.
S0089 BlackEnergy One variant of BlackEnergy creates a new service using either a hard-coded or randomly generated
name.
G0108 Blue Mockingbird Blue Mockingbird has made their XMRIG payloads persistent as a Windows Service.
S0204 Briba Briba installs a service pointing to a malicious DLL dropped to disk.
G0008 Carbanak Carbanak malware installs itself as a service to provide persistence and SYSTEM privileges.
S0335 Carbon Carbon establishes persistence by creating a service and naming it based off the operating system
version running on the current machine.
S0261 Catchamas Catchamas adds a new service named NetAdapter to establish persistence.
S0660 Clambling Clambling can register itself as a system service to gain persistence.
G0080 Cobalt Group Cobalt Group has created new services to establish persistence.
S0154 Cobalt Strike Cobalt Strike can install a new service.
S0608 Conﬁcker Conﬁcker copies itself into the %systemroot%\system32 directory and registers as a service.[6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11][12][13]
[14]
[15][16]
[17]
[18]
[19]
[20][21]
[22]
[23]
[24]
[25][26]
[27]
[28]
[29]
[30]
[31]
[32]
[33]
[34]
[35]
[36]3/22/24, 3:39 PM Create or Modify System Process: Windows Service, Sub-technique T1543.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/003/ 5/17ID Name Description
S0050 CosmicDuke CosmicDuke uses Windows services typically named "javamtsup" for persistence.
S0046 CozyCar One persistence mechanism used by CozyCar is to register itself as a Windows service.
S0625 Cuba Cuba can modify services by using the OpenService and ChangeServiceConfig functions.
G0105 DarkVishnya DarkVishnya created new services for shellcode loaders distribution.
S1033 DCSrv DCSrv has created new services for persistence by modifying the Registry.
S0567 Dtrack Dtrack can add a service called WBService to establish persistence.
S0038 Duqu Duqu creates a new service that loads a malicious driver when the system starts. When Duqu is
active, the operating system believes that the driver is legitimate, as it has been signed with a valid
private key.
S0024 Dyre Dyre registers itself as a service by adding several Registry keys.
G1006 Earth Lusca Earth Lusca created a service using the command sc create "SysUpdate" binpath= "cmd /c
start "[file path]""&≻ config "SysUpdate" start= auto&&netstart SysUpdate for
persistence.
S0081 Elise Elise conﬁgures itself as a service.
S0082 Emissary Emissary is capable of conﬁguring itself as a service.
S0367 Emotet Emotet has been observed creating new services to maintain persistence.
S0363 Empire Empire can utilize built-in modules to modify service binaries and restore them to their original state.
S0343 Exaramel for
WindowsThe Exaramel for Windows dropper creates and starts a Windows service named wsmprovav with
the description "Windows Check AV."
S0181 FALLCHILL FALLCHILL has been installed as a Windows service.
G0046 FIN7 FIN7 created new Windows services and added them to the startup directories for persistence.
S0182 FinFisher FinFisher creates a new Windows service with the malicious executable for persistence.
S1044 FunnyDream FunnyDream has established persistence by running sc.exe and by setting the WSearch service to
run automatically.
S0666 Gelsemium Gelsemium can drop itself in C:\Windows\System32\spool\prtprocs\x64\winprint.dll as an
alternative Print Processor to be loaded automatically when the spoolsv Windows service starts.
S0032 gh0st RAT gh0st RAT can create a new service to establish persistence.
S0493 GoldenSpy GoldenSpy has established persistence by running in the background as an autostart service.
S0342 GreyEnergy GreyEnergy chooses a service, drops a DLL ﬁle, and writes it to that serviceDLL Registry key.
S0071 hcdLoader hcdLoader installs itself as a service for persistence.
S0697 HermeticWiper HermeticWiper can load drivers by creating a new service using the CreateServiceW API.
S0203 Hydraq Hydraq creates new services to establish persistence.[37]
[38]
[39]
[40]
[41]
[42]
[43]
[44]
[45]
[46]
[47]
[48][49][50]
[51]
[52]
[8]
[53]
[54][55]
[56]
[57]
[58][59]
[60]
[61]
[62][63]
[3]
[64][65][66]3/22/24, 3:39 PM Create or Modify System Process: Windows Service, Sub-technique T1543.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/003/ 6/17ID Name Description
S0604 Industroyer Industroyer can use an arbitrary system service to load at system boot for persistence and replaces
the ImagePath registry value of a Windows service with a new backdoor binary.
S0259 InnaputRAT Some InnaputRAT variants create a new Windows service to establish persistence.
S0260 InvisiMole InvisiMole can register a Windows service named CsPower as part of its execution chain, and a
Windows service named clr\_optimization\_v2.0.51527\_X86 to achieve persistence.
S0044 JHUHUGIT JHUHUGIT has registered itself as a service to establish persistence.
S0265 Kazuar Kazuar can install itself as a new service.
G0004 Ke3chang Ke3chang backdoor RoyalDNS established persistence through adding a service called
Nwsapagent .
S0387 KeyBoy KeyBoy installs a service pointing to a malicious DLL dropped to disk.
G0094 Kimsuky Kimsuky has created new services for persistence.
S0356 KONNI KONNI has registered itself as a service using its export function.
S0236 Kwampirs Kwampirs creates a new service named WmiApSrvEx to establish persistence.
G0032 Lazarus Group Several Lazarus Group malware families install themselves as new services.
S0451 LoudMiner LoudMiner can automatically launch a Linux virtual machine as a service at startup if the AutoStart
option is enabled in the VBoxVmService conﬁguration ﬁle.
S0149 MoonWind MoonWind installs itself as a new service with automatic startup to establish persistence. The
service checks every 60 seconds to determine if the malware is running; if not, it will spawn a new
instance.
S0205 Naid Naid creates a new service to establish.
S0630 Nebulae Nebulae can create a service to establish persistence.
S0210 Nerex Nerex creates a Registry subkey that registers a new service.
S0118 Nidiran Nidiran can create a new service named msamger (Microsoft Security Accounts Manager).
S1090 NightClub NightClub has created a Windows service named WmdmPmSp to establish persistence.
S0439 Okrum To establish persistence, Okrum can install itself as a new service named NtmSsvc.
C0012 Operation
CuckooBeesDuring Operation CuckooBees, the threat actors modiﬁed the IKEEXT and PrintNotify Windows
services for persistence.
C0006 Operation Honeybee During Operation Honeybee, threat actors installed DLLs and backdoors as Windows services.
S0664 Pandora Pandora has the ability to gain system privileges through Windows services.
S1031 PingPull PingPull has the ability to install itself as a service.
S0501 PipeMon PipeMon can establish persistence by registering a malicious DLL as an alternative Print Processor
which is loaded when the print spooler service starts.
S0013 PlugX PlugX can be added as a service to establish persistence. PlugX also has a module to change
service conﬁgurations as well as start, control, and delete services.[6]
[67]
[5]
[68]
[69]
[70]
[71]
[72][73]
[74]
[75]
[76][77]
[78]
[79]
[80]
[81]
[82]
[83]
[84]
[85]
[86]
[87]
[88]
[89]
[90]
[91][92][93][94][95]3/22/24, 3:39 PM Create or Modify System Process: Windows Service, Sub-technique T1543.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/003/ 7/17ID Name Description
S0012 PoisonIvy PoisonIvy creates a Registry subkey that registers a new service. PoisonIvy also creates a Registry
entry modifying the Logical Disk Manager service to point to a malicious DLL dropped to disk.
S0194 PowerSploit PowerSploit contains a collection of Privesc-PowerUp modules that can discover and
replace/modify service binaries, paths, and conﬁgs.
G0056 PROMETHIUM PROMETHIUM has created new services and modiﬁed existing services for persistence.
S0029 PsExec PsExec can leverage Windows services to escalate privileges from administrator to SYSTEM with
the -s argument.
S0650 QakBot QakBot can remotely create a temporary service on a target host.
S0481 Ragnar Locker Ragnar Locker has used sc.exe to create a new service for the VirtualBox driver.
S0629 RainyDay RainyDay can use services to establish persistence.
S0169 RawPOS RawPOS installs itself as a service to maintain persistence.
S0495 RDAT RDAT has created a service when it is installed on the victim machine.
S0172 Reaver Reaver installs itself as a new service.
S0074 Sakula Some Sakula samples install themselves as services for persistence by calling WinExec with the
net start argument.
S0345 Seasalt Seasalt is capable of installing itself as a service.
S0140 Shamoon Shamoon creates a new service named "ntssrv" to execute the payload. Newer versions create the
"MaintenaceSrv" and "hdv\_725x" services.
S0444 ShimRat ShimRat has installed a Windows service to maintain persistence on victim machines.
S0692 SILENTTRINITY SILENTTRINITY can establish persistence by creating a new service.
S0533 SLOTHFULMEDIA SLOTHFULMEDIA has created a service on victim machines named "TaskFrame" to establish
persistence.
S1037 STARWHALE STARWHALE has the ability to create the following Windows service to establish persistence on an
infected host: sc create Windowscarpstss binpath= "cmd.exe /c cscript.exe
c:\\windows\\system32\\w7\_1.wsf humpback\_whale" start= "auto" obj= "LocalSystem" .
S0142 StreamEx StreamEx establishes persistence by installing a new service pointing to its DLL and setting the
service to auto-start.
S0491 StrongPity StrongPity has created new services and modiﬁed existing services for persistence.
S0603 Stuxnet Stuxnet uses a driver registered as a boot start service as the main load-point.
S1049 SUGARUSH SUGARUSH has created a service named Service1 for persistence.
S0663 SysUpdate SysUpdate can create a service to establish persistence.
S0164 TDTESS If running as administrator, TDTESS installs itself as a new service named bmwappushservice to
establish persistence.
G0139 TeamTNT TeamTNT has used malware that adds cryptocurrency miners as a service.
S0560 TEARDROP TEARDROP ran as a Windows service from the c:\windows\syswow64 folder.[96]
[97][98]
[99]
[100]
[101]
[102]
[81]
[103][104][105]
[106]
[107]
[108]
[109]
[110][111]
[112]
[113]
[114]
[115]
[116]
[117]
[118]
[119]
[88]
[120]
[121]
[122][123]3/22/24, 3:39 PM Create or Modify System Process: Windows Service, Sub-technique T1543.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/003/ 8/17ID Name Description
G0027 Threat Group-3390 Threat Group-3390's malware can create a new service, sometimes naming it after the conﬁg
information, to gain persistence.
S0665 ThreatNeedle ThreatNeedle can run in memory and register its payload as a Windows service.
S0004 TinyZBot TinyZBot can install as a Windows service for persistence.
S0266 TrickBot TrickBot establishes persistence by creating an autostart service that allows it to run whenever the
machine boots.
G0081 Tropic Trooper Tropic Trooper has installed a service pointing to a malicious DLL dropped to disk.
S0263 TYPEFRAME TYPEFRAME variants can add malicious DLL modules as new services.TYPEFRAME can also delete
services from the victim’s machine.
S0022 Uroburos Uroburos has registered a service, typically named WerFaultSvc , to decrypt and ﬁnd a kernel driver
and kernel driver loader to maintain persistence.
S0386 Ursnif Ursnif has registered itself as a system service in the Registry for automatic execution at system
startup.
S0180 Volgmer Volgmer installs a copy of itself in a randomly selected service, then overwrites the ServiceDLL entry
in the service's Registry entry. Some Volgmer variants also install .dll ﬁles as services with names
generated by a list of hard-coded strings.
S0366 WannaCry WannaCry creates the service "mssecsvc2.0" with the display name "Microsoft Security Center (2.0)
Service."
S0612 WastedLocker WastedLocker created and established a service that runs until the encryption process is complete.
S0206 Wiarp Wiarp creates a backdoor through which remote attackers can create a service.
S0176 Wingbird Wingbird uses services.exe to register a new autostart service named "Audit Service" using a copy of
the local lsass.exe ﬁle.
S0141 Winnti for Windows Winnti for Windows sets its DLL ﬁle as a new service in the Registry to establish persistence.
G0102 Wizard Spider Wizard Spider has installed TrickBot as a service named ControlServiceA in order to establish
persistence.
S0230 ZeroT ZeroT can add a new service to ensure PlugX persists on the system when delivered as another
payload onto the system.
S0086 ZLib ZLib creates Registry keys to allow itself to run as various services.
S0350 zwShell zwShell has established persistence by adding itself as a new service.
S0412 ZxShell ZxShell can create a new service using the service parser function ProcessScCommand.[124][125]
[126]
[127]
[128]
[129]
[130]
[131]
[132]
[133][134][135]
[136][137]
[138]
[139]
[140][141]
[142]
[143][144]
[95]
[145]
[146]
[147]3/22/24, 3:39 PM Create or Modify System Process: Windows Service, Sub-technique T1543.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/003/ 9/17Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1047 Audit Use auditing tools capable of detecting privilege and service abuse opportunities on systems within an
enterprise and correct them.
M1040 Behavior
Prevention on
EndpointOn Windows 10, enable Attack Surface Reduction (ASR) rules to prevent an application from writing a
signed vulnerable driver to the system. On Windows 10 and 11, enable Microsoft Vulnerable Driver
Blocklist to assist in hardening against third party-developed service drivers.
M1045 Code Signing Enforce registration and execution of only legitimately signed service drivers where possible.
M1028 Operating System
ConﬁgurationEnsure that Driver Signature Enforcement is enabled to restrict unsigned drivers from being installed.
M1018 User Account
ManagementLimit privileges of user accounts and groups so that only authorized administrators can interact with
service changes and service conﬁgurations.[148]
[149]3/22/24, 3:39 PM Create or Modify System Process: Windows Service, Sub-technique T1543.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/003/ 10/17Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor processes and command-line arguments for actions that could create or
modify services. Command-line invocation of tools capable of adding or modifying
services may be unusual, depending on how systems are typically used in a particular
environment. Services may also be modiﬁed through Windows system management
tools such as Windows Management Instrumentation and PowerShell, so additional
logging may need to be conﬁgured to gather the appropriate data. Also collect service
utility execution and service binary path arguments used for analysis. Service binary
paths may even be changed to execute commands or scripts.
DS0027 Driver Driver Load Monitor for new service driver installations and loads (ex: Sysmon Event ID 6) that are
not part of known software update/patch cycles.
Note: Sysmon Event ID 6 (driver load) provides information on whether the loaded
driver was signed with a valid signature (via the Signature and SignatureStatus
ﬁelds). As such, one way to help reduce the volume of alerts and false positives
associated with this event is to ﬁlter and exclude any driver load events signed by
common and legitimate publishers like Microsoft.
DS0022 File File Metadata Adversaries may modify the binary ﬁle for an existing service to
achieve Persistence while potentially Defense Evasion. If a newly created or modiﬁed
runs as a service, it may indicate APT activity. However, services are frequently
installed by legitimate software. A well-tuned baseline is essential to differentiating
between benign and malicious service modiﬁcations. Look for events where a ﬁle was
created and then later run as a service. In these cases, a new service has been created
or the binary has been modiﬁed. Many programs, such as msiexec.exe, do these
behaviors legitimately and can be used to help validate legitimate service
creations/modiﬁcations.
Analytic 1 - Service Binary Modiﬁcations
legitimate\_installers = ["C:\windows\system32\msiexec.exe",
"C:\windows\syswow64\msiexec.exe", ...]
file\_change = search File:Create,Modifyprocess = search
Process:Createservice\_process = filter processes where (parent\_exe ==
"services.exe")modified\_service = join (search, filter) where (
file\_change.time < service\_process.time and file\_change.file\_path ==
service\_process.image\_path)
modified\_service = filter modified\_service where
(modified\_service.file\_change.image\_path not in
legitimate\_installers)output modified\_service3/22/24, 3:39 PM Create or Modify System Process: Windows Service, Sub-technique T1543.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/003/ 11/17ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0029 Network Traﬃc Network Traﬃc
FlowMonitor for several ways that code can execute on a remote host. One of the most
common methods is via the Windows Service Control Manager (SCM), which allows
authorized users to remotely create and modify services. Several tools, such as PsExec,
use this functionality.
When a client remotely communicates with the Service Control Manager, there are two
observable behaviors. First, the client connects to the RPC Endpoint Mapper over
135/tcp. This handles authentication, and tells the client what port the endpoint—in
this case the SCM—is listening on. Then, the client connects directly to the listening
port on services.exe. If the request is to start an existing service with a known
command line, the the SCM process will run the corresponding command.
This compound behavior can be detected by looking for services.exe receiving a
network connection and immediately spawning a child process.
Analytic 1 - Remotely Launched Executables via Services
service = filter process where (parent\_exe ==
"services.exe")remote\_start = join (flow, service ) where (
flow.hostname == service.hostname and flow.pid == service.pid and
(flow.time < service.time < flow.time + 1 second))
DS0009 Process OS API
ExecutionMonitor for API calls that may create or modify Windows services (ex:
CreateServiceW() ) to repeatedly execute malicious payloads as part of persistence.3/22/24, 3:39 PM Create or Modify System Process: Windows Service, Sub-technique T1543.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/003/ 12/17ID Data Source Data Component Detects
Process
CreationSuspicious program execution through services may show up as outlier processes that
have not been seen before when compared against historical data. Look for abnormal
process call trees from known services and for execution of other commands that
could relate to Discovery or other adversary techniques. Data and events should not be
viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities,
such as network connections made for Command and Control, learning details about
the environment through Discovery, and Lateral Movement.
Windows runs the Service Control Manager (SCM) within the process services.exe.
Windows launches services as independent processes or DLL loads within a
svchost.exe group. To be a legitimate service, a process (or DLL) must have the
appropriate service entry point SvcMain. If an application does not have the entry
point, then it will timeout (default is 30 seconds) and the process will be killed.
To survive the timeout, adversaries and red teams can create services that direct to
cmd.exe with the ﬂag /c, followed by the desired command. The /c ﬂag causes the
command shell to run a command and immediately exit. As a result, the desired
program will remain running and it will report an error starting the service. This analytic
will catch that command prompt instance that is used to launch the actual malicious
executable. Additionally, the children and descendants of services.exe will run as a
SYSTEM user by default.
Note: Create a baseline of services seen over the last 30 days and a list of services
seen today. Remove services in the baseline from services seen today, leaving a list of
new services. Returns all processes named cmd.exe that have services.exe as a parent
process. Because this should never happen, the /c ﬂag is redundant in the search.
Analytic 1 : Service Outlier Executables
services = filter processes where (parent\_image\_path ==
"C:\Windows\System32\services.exe")historic\_services = filter services
(where timestamp < now - 1 day AND timestamp > now - 1
day)current\_services = filter services (where timestamp >= now - 1
day)new\_services = historic\_services - current\_services
Analytic 2 : Services launching CMD
suspicious\_processes = filter processes where (event\_id == "1" OR
event\_id == "4688") AND (exe == "cmd.exe" and parent\_exe ==
"services.exe")
DS0019 Service Service
CreationCreation of new services may generate an alterable event (ex: Event ID 4697 and/or
7045 ), especially those associated with unknown/abnormal drivers. New,
benign services may be created during installation of new software.
Analytic 1 : Creation of new services with unusual directory
paths such as temporal ﬁles in APPDATA
suspicious\_services = filter ServiceName, ServiceFilePath, ServiceType,
ServiceStartType, ServiceAccountName where (event\_id == "7045" OR
event\_id == "4697") AND (ServiceFilePath LIKE '%APPDATA%' OR
ServiceImagePath LIKE '%PUBLIC%')
Service
ModiﬁcationMonitor for changes made to Windows services to repeatedly execute malicious
payloads as part of persistence.
Analytic 1 : System services via registry modiﬁcations
suspicious\_processes = filter ProcessGuid, ProcessFilePath,
RegistryKeyPath, UserName where event\_id == "13" AND EventType ==
"SetValue" AND RegistryKeyPath LIKE
'%HKLM\System\CurrentControlSet\Services\%' AND (RegistryKeyPath LIKE
'%ImagePath%' OR RegistryKeyPath LIKE '%Type%' OR RegistryKeyPath LIKE
'%DisplayName%' OR RegistryKeyPath LIKE '%Objectname%')[150][151]3/22/24, 3:39 PM Create or Modify System Process: Windows Service, Sub-technique T1543.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/003/ 13/17ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0024 Windows RegistryWindows
Registry Key
CreationMonitor for new constructed windows registry keys that may create or modify
Windows services to repeatedly execute malicious payloads as part of persistence.
Analytic 1 : Creation of the
HKLM\System\CurrentControlSet\Services Registry key
suspicious\_processes = filter ProcessGuid, ProcessFilePath,
RegistryKeyPath, UserName where event\_id == "12" AND RegistryKeyPath
LIKE '%HKLM\System\CurrentControlSet\Services\%'
Windows
Registry Key
ModiﬁcationLook for changes to service Registry entries that do not correlate with known software,
patch cycles, etc. Service information is stored in the Registry at
HKLM\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services . Changes to the binary path and the
service startup type changed from manual or disabled to automatic, if it does not
typically do so, may be suspicious. Tools such as Sysinternals Autoruns may also be
used to detect system service changes that could be attempts at persistence.
Analytic 1 : Modiﬁcation of the
HKLM\System\CurrentControlSet\Services Registry key
suspicious\_registry = filter ProcessGuid, ProcessFilePath,
RegistryKeyPath, UserName where (event\_id == "13" event\_id == "14") AND
RegistryKeyPath LIKE '%HKLM\System\CurrentControlSet\Services\%'[152]3/22/24, 3:39 PM Create or Modify System Process: Windows Service, Sub-technique T1543.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/003/ 14/17References
1. Microsoft. (n.d.). Services. Retrieved June 7, 2016.
2. Nicolas Falliere, Liam O. Murchu, Eric Chien. (2011, February).
W32.Stuxnet Dossier. Retrieved December 7, 2020.
3. Thomas, W. et al. (2022, February 25). CrowdStrike Falcon
Protects from New Wiper Malware Used in Ukraine
Cyberattacks. Retrieved March 25, 2022.
4. Reichel, D. and Idrizovic, E. (2020, June 17). AcidBox: Rare
Malware Repurposing Turla Group Exploit Targeted Russian
Organizations. Retrieved March 16, 2021.
5. Hromcova, Z. and Cherpanov, A. (2020, June). INVISIMOLE:
THE HIDDEN PART OF THE STORY. Retrieved July 16, 2020.
. Dragos Inc.. (2017, June 13). CRASHOVERRIDE Analysis of
the Threat to Electric Grid Operations. Retrieved December 18,
2020.
7. Dahan, A. et al. (2019, December 11). DROPPING ANCHOR:
FROM A TRICKBOT INFECTION TO THE DISCOVERY OF THE
ANCHOR MALWARE. Retrieved September 10, 2020.
. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency. (2021,
February 21). AppleJeus: Analysis of North Korea’s
Cryptocurrency Malware. Retrieved March 1, 2021.
9. Grunzweig, J., Lee, B. (2016, January 22). New Attacks Linked
to C0d0so0 Group. Retrieved August 2, 2018.
10. Moran, N., et al. (2014, November 21). Operation Double Tap.
Retrieved January 14, 2016.
11. Foltýn, T. (2018, March 13). OceanLotus ships new backdoor
using old tricks. Retrieved May 22, 2018.
12. Dahan, A. (2017). Operation Cobalt Kitty. Retrieved December
27, 2018.
13. Dumont, R. (2019, March 20). Fake or Fake: Keeping up with
OceanLotus decoys. Retrieved April 1, 2019.
14. DHS/CISA. (2020, August 26). FASTCash 2.0: North Korea's
BeagleBoyz Robbing Banks. Retrieved September 29, 2021.
15. Fraser, N., et al. (2019, August 7). Double DragonAPT41, a
dual espionage and cyber crime operation APT41. Retrieved
September 23, 2019.
1. Rostovcev, N. (2021, June 10). Big airline heist APT41 likely
behind a third-party attack on Air India. Retrieved August 26,
2021.
17. Glyer, C, et al. (2020, March). This Is Not a Test: APT41
Initiates Global Intrusion Campaign Using Multiple Exploits.
Retrieved April 28, 2020.
1. Hromcova, Z. (2019, October). AT COMMANDS, TOR-BASED
COMMUNICATIONS: MEET ATTOR, A FANTASY CREATURE
AND ALSO A SPY PLATFORM. Retrieved May 6, 2020.
19. Trend Micro. (2018, November 20). Lazarus Continues Heists,
Mounts Attacks on Financial Organizations in Latin America.
Retrieved December 3, 2018.
20. Sherstobitoff, R. (2018, March 08). Hidden Cobra Targets
Turkish Financial Sector With New Bankshot Implant.
Retrieved May 18, 2018.
21. US-CERT. (2017, December 13). Malware Analysis Report
(MAR) - 10135536-B. Retrieved July 17, 2018.
22. Lee, B. Grunzweig, J. (2015, December 22). BBSRAT Attacks
Targeting Russian Organizations Linked to Roaming Tiger.
Retrieved August 19, 2016.
23. Mercer, W., et al. (2020, March 5). Bisonal: 10 years of play.
Retrieved January 26, 2022.77. Novetta Threat Research Group. (2016, February 24).
Operation Blockbuster: Destructive Malware Report. Retrieved
March 2, 2016.
7. Malik, M. (2019, June 20). LoudMiner: Cross-platform mining
in cracked VST software. Retrieved May 18, 2020.
79. Miller-Osborn, J. and Grunzweig, J.. (2017, March 30).
Trochilus and New MoonWind RATs Used In Attack Against
Thai Organizations. Retrieved March 30, 2017.
0. Neville, A. (2012, June 15). Trojan.Naid. Retrieved February 22,
2018.
1. Vrabie, V. (2021, April 23). NAIKON – Traces from a Military
Cyber-Espionage Operation. Retrieved June 29, 2021.
2. Ladley, F. (2012, May 15). Backdoor.Nerex. Retrieved February
23, 2018.
3. Sponchioni, R.. (2016, March 11). Backdoor.Nidiran. Retrieved
August 3, 2016.
4. Faou, M. (2023, August 10). MoustachedBouncer: Espionage
against foreign diplomats in Belarus. Retrieved September 25,
2023.
5. Hromcova, Z. (2019, July). OKRUM AND KETRICAN: AN
OVERVIEW OF RECENT KE3CHANG GROUP ACTIVITY.
Retrieved May 6, 2020.
. Cybereason Nocturnus. (2022, May 4). Operation CuckooBees:
Deep-Dive into Stealthy Winnti Techniques. Retrieved
September 22, 2022.
7. Sherstobitoff, R. (2018, March 02). McAfee Uncovers
Operation Honeybee, a Malicious Document Campaign
Targeting Humanitarian Aid Groups. Retrieved May 16, 2018.
. Lunghi, D. and Lu, K. (2021, April 9). Iron Tiger APT Updates
Toolkit With Evolved SysUpdate Malware. Retrieved November
12, 2021.
9. Unit 42. (2022, June 13). GALLIUM Expands Targeting Across
Telecommunications, Government and Finance Sectors With
New PingPull Tool. Retrieved August 7, 2022.
90. Tartare, M. et al. (2020, May 21). No “Game over” for the
Winnti Group. Retrieved August 24, 2020.
91. Computer Incident Response Center Luxembourg. (2013,
March 29). Analysis of a PlugX variant. Retrieved November 5,
2018.
92. Vasilenko, R. (2013, December 17). An Analysis of PlugX
Malware. Retrieved November 24, 2015.
93. PwC and BAE Systems. (2017, April). Operation Cloud Hopper:
Technical Annex. Retrieved April 13, 2017.
94. FireEye iSIGHT Intelligence. (2017, April 6). APT10 (MenuPass
Group): New Tools, Global Campaign Latest Manifestation of
Longstanding Threat. Retrieved June 29, 2017.
95. Huss, D., et al. (2017, February 2). Oops, they did it again: APT
Targets Russia and Belarus with ZeroT and PlugX. Retrieved
April 5, 2018.
9. Hayashi, K. (2005, August 18). Backdoor.Darkmoon. Retrieved
February 23, 2018.
97. PowerShellMaﬁa. (2012, May 26). PowerSploit - A PowerShell
Post-Exploitation Framework. Retrieved February 6, 2018.
9. PowerSploit. (n.d.). PowerSploit. Retrieved February 6, 2018.
99. Tudorica, R. et al. (2020, June 30). StrongPity APT - Revealing
Trojanized Tools, Working Hours and Infrastructure. Retrieved
July 20, 2020.
100. Russinovich, M. (2014, May 2). Windows Sysinternals PsExec
v2.11. Retrieved May 13, 2015.3/22/24, 3:39 PM Create or Modify System Process: Windows Service, Sub-technique T1543.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/003/ 15/1724. Frankoff, S., Hartley, B. (2018, November 14). Big Game
Hunting: The Evolution of INDRIK SPIDER From Dridex Wire
Fraud to BitPaymer Targeted Ransomware. Retrieved January
6, 2021.
25. Zargarov, N. (2022, May 2). New Black Basta Ransomware
Hijacks Windows Fax Service. Retrieved March 7, 2023.
2. Avertium. (2022, June 1). AN IN-DEPTH LOOK AT BLACK
BASTA RANSOMWARE. Retrieved March 7, 2023.
27. F-Secure Labs. (2014). BlackEnergy & Quedagh: The
convergence of crimeware and APT attacks. Retrieved March
24, 2016.
2. Lambert, T. (2020, May 7). Introducing Blue Mockingbird.
Retrieved May 26, 2020.
29. Ladley, F. (2012, May 15). Backdoor.Briba. Retrieved February
21, 2018.
30. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research and Analysis Team. (2015,
February). CARBANAK APT THE GREAT BANK ROBBERY.
Retrieved August 23, 2018.
31. ESET. (2017, March 30). Carbon Paper: Peering into Turla’s
second stage backdoor. Retrieved November 7, 2018.
32. Balanza, M. (2018, April 02). Infostealer.Catchamas. Retrieved
July 10, 2018.
33. Chen, T. and Chen, Z. (2020, February 17). CLAMBLING - A
New Backdoor Base On Dropbox. Retrieved November 12,
2021.
34. Matveeva, V. (2017, August 15). Secrets of Cobalt. Retrieved
October 10, 2018.
35. Cobalt Strike. (2017, December 8). Tactics, Techniques, and
Procedures. Retrieved December 20, 2017.
3. Burton, K. (n.d.). The Conﬁcker Worm. Retrieved February 18,
2021.
37. F-Secure Labs. (2014, July). COSMICDUKE Cosmu with a twist
of MiniDuke. Retrieved July 3, 2014.
3. F-Secure Labs. (2015, April 22). CozyDuke: Malware Analysis.
Retrieved December 10, 2015.
39. Roccio, T., et al. (2021, April). Technical Analysis of Cuba
Ransomware. Retrieved June 18, 2021.
40. Golovanov, S. (2018, December 6). DarkVishnya: Banks
attacked through direct connection to local network. Retrieved
May 15, 2020.
41. Checkpoint Research. (2021, November 15). Uncovering
MosesStaff techniques: Ideology over Money. Retrieved
August 11, 2022.
42. Hod Gavriel. (2019, November 21). Dtrack: In-depth analysis of
APT on a nuclear power plant. Retrieved January 20, 2021.
43. Symantec Security Response. (2011, November). W32.Duqu:
The precursor to the next Stuxnet. Retrieved September 17,
2015.
44. Symantec Security Response. (2015, June 23). Dyre: Emerging
threat on ﬁnancial fraud landscape. Retrieved August 23,
2018.
45. Chen, J., et al. (2022). Delving Deep: An Analysis of Earth
Lusca’s Operations. Retrieved July 1, 2022.
4. Falcone, R., et al.. (2015, June 16). Operation Lotus Blossom.
Retrieved February 15, 2016.
47. Falcone, R. and Miller-Osborn, J. (2016, February 3). Emissary
Trojan Changelog: Did Operation Lotus Blossom Cause It to
Evolve?. Retrieved February 15, 2016.
4. US-CERT. (2018, July 20). Alert (TA18-201A) Emotet Malware.
Retrieved March 25, 2019.
49. Mclellan, M.. (2018, November 19). Lazy Passwords Become
Rocket Fuel for Emotet SMB Spreader. Retrieved March 25,
2019.101. Inman, R. and Gurney, P. (2022, June 6). Shining the Light on
Black Basta. Retrieved March 8, 2023.
102. SophosLabs. (2020, May 21). Ragnar Locker ransomware
deploys virtual machine to dodge security. Retrieved June 29,
2020.
103. Nesbit, B. and Ackerman, D. (2017, January). Malware
Analysis Report - RawPOS Malware: Deconstructing an
Intruder’s Toolkit. Retrieved October 4, 2017.
104. TrendLabs Security Intelligence Blog. (2015, April). RawPOS
Technical Brief. Retrieved October 4, 2017.
105. Bromiley, M. and Lewis, P. (2016, October 7). Attacking the
Hospitality and Gaming Industries: Tracking an Attacker
Around the World in 7 Years. Retrieved October 6, 2017.
10. Falcone, R. (2020, July 22). OilRig Targets Middle Eastern
Telecommunications Organization and Adds Novel C2
Channel with Steganography to Its Inventory. Retrieved July
28, 2020.
107. Grunzweig, J. and Miller-Osborn, J. (2017, November 10). New
Malware with Ties to SunOrcal Discovered. Retrieved
November 16, 2017.
10. Dell SecureWorks Counter Threat Unit Threat Intelligence.
(2015, July 30). Sakula Malware Family. Retrieved January 26,
2016.
109. Mandiant. (n.d.). Appendix C (Digital) - The Malware Arsenal.
Retrieved July 18, 2016.
110. Falcone, R.. (2016, November 30). Shamoon 2: Return of the
Disttrack Wiper. Retrieved January 11, 2017.
111. Falcone, R. (2018, December 13). Shamoon 3 Targets Oil and
Gas Organization. Retrieved March 14, 2019.
112. Yonathan Klijnsma. (2016, May 17). Mofang: A politically
motivated information stealing adversary. Retrieved May 12,
2020.
113. Salvati, M. (2019, August 6). SILENTTRINITY Modules.
Retrieved March 24, 2022.
114. DHS/CISA, Cyber National Mission Force. (2020, October 1).
Malware Analysis Report (MAR) MAR-10303705-1.v1 –
Remote Access Trojan: SLOTHFULMEDIA. Retrieved October 2,
2020.
115. Tomcik, R. et al. (2022, February 24). Left On Read: Telegram
Malware Spotted in Latest Iranian Cyber Espionage Activity.
Retrieved August 18, 2022.
11. Cylance SPEAR Team. (2017, February 9). Shell Crew Variants
Continue to Fly Under Big AV’s Radar. Retrieved February 15,
2017.
117. Mercer, W. et al. (2020, June 29). PROMETHIUM extends
global reach with StrongPity3 APT. Retrieved July 20, 2020.
11. Nicolas Falliere, Liam O Murchu, Eric Chien 2011, February
W32.Stuxnet Dossier (Version 1.4) Retrieved. 2017/09/22
119. Mandiant Israel Research Team. (2022, August 17). Suspected
Iranian Actor Targeting Israeli Shipping, Healthcare,
Government and Energy Sectors. Retrieved September 21,
2022.
120. ClearSky Cyber Security and Trend Micro. (2017, July).
Operation Wilted Tulip: Exposing a cyber espionage
apparatus. Retrieved August 21, 2017.
121. AT&T Alien Labs. (2021, September 8). TeamTNT with new
campaign aka Chimaera. Retrieved September 22, 2021.
122. Check Point Research. (2020, December 22). SUNBURST,
TEARDROP and the NetSec New Normal. Retrieved January 6,
2021.3/22/24, 3:39 PM Create or Modify System Process: Windows Service, Sub-technique T1543.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/003/ 16/1750. Binary Defense. (n.d.). Emotet Evolves With new Wi-Fi
Spreader. Retrieved September 8, 2023.
51. Schroeder, W., Warner, J., Nelson, M. (n.d.). Github
PowerShellEmpire. Retrieved April 28, 2016.
52. Cherepanov, A., Lipovsky, R. (2018, October 11). New TeleBots
backdoor: First evidence linking Industroyer to NotPetya.
Retrieved November 27, 2018.
53. Carr, N., et al. (2018, August 01). On the Hunt for FIN7:
Pursuing an Enigmatic and Evasive Global Criminal Operation.
Retrieved August 23, 2018.
54. FinFisher. (n.d.). Retrieved December 20, 2017.
55. Allievi, A.,Flori, E. (2018, March 01). FinFisher exposed: A
researcher’s tale of defeating traps, tricks, and complex virtual
machines. Retrieved July 9, 2018.
5. Vrabie, V. (2020, November). Dissecting a Chinese APT
Targeting South Eastern Asian Government Institutions.
Retrieved September 19, 2022.
57. Dupuy, T. and Faou, M. (2021, June). Gelsemium. Retrieved
November 30, 2021.
5. Pantazopoulos, N. (2018, April 17). Decoding network data
from a Gh0st RAT variant. Retrieved November 2, 2018.
59. Quinn, J. (2019, March 25). The odd case of a Gh0stRAT
variant. Retrieved July 15, 2020.
0. Trustwave SpiderLabs. (2020, June 25). The Golden Tax
Department and Emergence of GoldenSpy Malware. Retrieved
July 23, 2020.
1. Cherepanov, A. (2018, October). GREYENERGY A successor to
BlackEnergy. Retrieved November 15, 2018.
2. Carvey, H.. (2014, September 2). Where you AT?: Indicators of
lateral movement using at.exe on Windows 7 systems.
Retrieved January 25, 2016.
3. Shelmire, A.. (2015, July 6). Evasive Maneuvers. Retrieved
January 22, 2016.
4. Symantec Security Response. (2010, January 18). The
Trojan.Hydraq Incident. Retrieved February 20, 2018.
5. Lelli, A. (2010, January 11). Trojan.Hydraq. Retrieved February
20, 2018.
. Fitzgerald, P. (2010, January 26). How Trojan.Hydraq Stays On
Your Computer. Retrieved February 22, 2018.
7. ASERT Team. (2018, April 04). Innaput Actors Utilize Remote
Access Trojan Since 2016, Presumably Targeting Victim Files.
Retrieved July 9, 2018.
. ESET. (2016, October). En Route with Sednit - Part 1:
Approaching the Target. Retrieved November 8, 2016.
9. Levene, B, et al. (2017, May 03). Kazuar: Multiplatform
Espionage Backdoor with API Access. Retrieved July 17, 2018.
70. Smallridge, R. (2018, March 10). APT15 is alive and strong: An
analysis of RoyalCli and RoyalDNS. Retrieved April 4, 2018.
71. Guarnieri, C., Schloesser M. (2013, June 7). KeyBoy, Targeted
Attacks against Vietnam and India. Retrieved June 14, 2019.
72. Tarakanov , D.. (2013, September 11). The “Kimsuky”
Operation: A North Korean APT?. Retrieved August 13, 2019.
73. CISA, FBI, CNMF. (2020, October 27). https://us-
cert.cisa.gov/ncas/alerts/aa20-301a. Retrieved November 4,
2020.
74. Threat Intelligence Team. (2021, August 23). New variant of
Konni malware used in campaign targetting Russia. Retrieved
January 5, 2022.
75. Symantec Security Response Attack Investigation Team.
(2018, April 23). New Orangeworm attack group targets the
healthcare sector in the U.S., Europe, and Asia. Retrieved May
8, 2018.123. FireEye. (2020, December 13). Highly Evasive Attacker
Leverages SolarWinds Supply Chain to Compromise Multiple
Global Victims With SUNBURST Backdoor. Retrieved January
4, 2021.
124. Pantazopoulos, N., Henry T. (2018, May 18). Emissary Panda
– A potential new malicious tool. Retrieved June 25, 2018.
125. Daniel Lunghi. (2023, March 1). Iron Tiger’s SysUpdate
Reappears, Adds Linux Targeting. Retrieved March 20, 2023.
12. Vyacheslav Kopeytsev and Seongsu Park. (2021, February
25). Lazarus targets defense industry with ThreatNeedle.
Retrieved October 27, 2021.
127. Cylance. (2014, December). Operation Cleaver. Retrieved
September 14, 2017.
12. Anthony, N., Pascual, C.. (2018, November 1). Trickbot Shows
Off New Trick: Password Grabber Module. Retrieved
November 16, 2018.
129. Parys, B. (2017, February 11). The KeyBoys are back in town.
Retrieved June 13, 2019.
130. US-CERT. (2018, June 14). MAR-10135536-12 – North Korean
Trojan: TYPEFRAME. Retrieved July 13, 2018.
131. FBI et al. (2023, May 9). Hunting Russian Intelligence “Snake”
Malware. Retrieved June 8, 2023.
132. Trend Micro. (2014, December 11). PE\_URSNIF.A2. Retrieved
June 5, 2019.
133. US-CERT. (2017, November 22). Alert (TA17-318B): HIDDEN
COBRA – North Korean Trojan: Volgmer. Retrieved December
7, 2017.
134. US-CERT. (2017, November 01). Malware Analysis Report
(MAR) - 10135536-D. Retrieved July 16, 2018.
135. Yagi, J. (2014, August 24). Trojan.Volgmer. Retrieved July 16,
2018.
13. Noerenberg, E., Costis, A., and Quist, N. (2017, May 16). A
Technical Analysis of WannaCry Ransomware. Retrieved
March 25, 2019.
137. Berry, A., Homan, J., and Eitzman, R. (2017, May 23).
WannaCry Malware Proﬁle. Retrieved March 15, 2019.
13. Antenucci, S., Pantazopoulos, N., Sandee, M. (2020, June 23).
WastedLocker: A New Ransomware Variant Developed By The
Evil Corp Group. Retrieved September 14, 2021.
139. Zhou, R. (2012, May 15). Backdoor.Wiarp. Retrieved February
22, 2018.
140. Anthe, C. et al. (2016, December 14). Microsoft Security
Intelligence Report Volume 21. Retrieved November 27, 2017.
141. Microsoft. (2017, November 9).
Backdoor:Win32/Wingbird.A!dha. Retrieved November 27,
2017.
142. Cap, P., et al. (2017, January 25). Detecting threat actors in
recent German industrial attacks with Windows Defender ATP.
Retrieved February 8, 2017.
143. John, E. and Carvey, H. (2019, May 30). Unraveling the
Spiderweb: Timelining ATT&CK Artifacts Used by GRIM
SPIDER. Retrieved May 12, 2020.
144. Shilko, J., et al. (2021, October 7). FIN12: The Proliﬁc
Ransomware Intrusion Threat Actor That Has Aggressively
Pursued Healthcare Targets. Retrieved June 15, 2023.
145. Gross, J. (2016, February 23). Operation Dust Storm. Retrieved
December 22, 2021.
14. McAfee® Foundstone® Professional Services and McAfee
Labs™. (2011, February 10). Global Energy Cyberattacks:
“Night Dragon”. Retrieved February 19, 2018.
147. Allievi, A., et al. (2014, October 28). Threat Spotlight: Group 72,
Opening the ZxShell. Retrieved September 24, 2019.3/22/24, 3:39 PM Create or Modify System Process: Windows Service, Sub-technique T1543.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1543/003/ 17/177. Novetta Threat Research Group. (2016, February 24).
Operation Blockbuster: Unraveling the Long Thread of the
Sony Attack. Retrieved February 25, 2016.14. Azure Edge and Platform Security Team & Microsoft 365
Defender Research Team. (2021, December 8). Improve kernel
security with the new Microsoft Vulnerable and Malicious
Driver Reporting Center. Retrieved April 6, 2022.
149. Jordan Geurten et al. . (2022, March 29). Microsoft
recommended driver block rules. Retrieved April 7, 2022.
150. Miroshnikov, A. & Hall, J. (2017, April 18). 4697(S): A service
was installed in the system. Retrieved August 7, 2018.
151. Hardy, T. & Hall, J. (2018, February 15). Use Windows Event
Forwarding to help with intrusion detection. Retrieved August
7, 2018.
152. Russinovich, M. (2016, January 4). Autoruns for Windows
v13.51. Retrieved June 6, 2016.