3/22/24, 3:32 PM Initial Access, Tactic TA0001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0001/ 1/6Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Initial Access, Tactic TA0001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0001/ 2/6Home>Tactics>Enterprise>Initial Access3/22/24, 3:32 PM Initial Access, Tactic TA0001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0001/ 3/6Initial Access
Techniques
Techniques: 10The adversary is trying to get into your network.
Initial Access consists of techniques that use various entry vectors to gain their initial foothold within a network. Techniques used to gain a
foothold include targeted spearphishing and exploiting weaknesses on public-facing web servers. Footholds gained through initial access
may allow for continued access, like valid accounts and use of external remote services, or may be limited-use due to changing passwords.
Version PermalinkID: TA0001
Created: 17 October 2018
Last Modiﬁed: 19 July 20193/22/24, 3:32 PM Initial Access, Tactic TA0001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0001/ 4/6ID Name Description
T1659 Content Injection Adversaries may gain access and continuously communicate with victims by injecting malicious
content into systems through online network traﬃc. Rather than luring victims to malicious payloads
hosted on a compromised website (i.e., Drive-by Target followed by Drive-by Compromise),
adversaries may initially access victims through compromised data-transfer channels where they can
manipulate traﬃc and/or inject their own content. These compromised online network channels may
also be used to deliver additional payloads (i.e., Ingress Tool Transfer) and other data to already
compromised systems.
T1189 Drive-by
CompromiseAdversaries may gain access to a system through a user visiting a website over the normal course of
browsing. With this technique, the user's web browser is typically targeted for exploitation, but
adversaries may also use compromised websites for non-exploitation behavior such as acquiring
Application Access Token.
T1190 Exploit Public-
Facing ApplicationAdversaries may attempt to exploit a weakness in an Internet-facing host or system to initially access
a network. The weakness in the system can be a software bug, a temporary glitch, or a
misconﬁguration.
T1133 External Remote
ServicesAdversaries may leverage external-facing remote services to initially access and/or persist within a
network. Remote services such as VPNs, Citrix, and other access mechanisms allow users to connect
to internal enterprise network resources from external locations. There are often remote service
gateways that manage connections and credential authentication for these services. Services such
as Windows Remote Management and VNC can also be used externally.
T1200 Hardware
AdditionsAdversaries may introduce computer accessories, networking hardware, or other computing devices
into a system or network that can be used as a vector to gain access. Rather than just connecting
and distributing payloads via removable storage (i.e. Replication Through Removable Media), more
robust hardware additions can be used to introduce new functionalities and/or features into a
system that can then be abused.
T1566 Phishing Adversaries may send phishing messages to gain access to victim systems. All forms of phishing are
electronically delivered social engineering. Phishing can be targeted, known as spearphishing. In
spearphishing, a speciﬁc individual, company, or industry will be targeted by the adversary. More
generally, adversaries can conduct non-targeted phishing, such as in mass malware spam
campaigns.
.001 Spearphishing
AttachmentAdversaries may send spearphishing emails with a malicious attachment in an attempt to gain
access to victim systems. Spearphishing attachment is a speciﬁc variant of spearphishing.
Spearphishing attachment is different from other forms of spearphishing in that it employs the use
of malware attached to an email. All forms of spearphishing are electronically delivered social
engineering targeted at a speciﬁc individual, company, or industry. In this scenario, adversaries attach
a ﬁle to the spearphishing email and usually rely upon User Execution to gain execution.
Spearphishing may also involve social engineering techniques, such as posing as a trusted source.
.002 Spearphishing Link Adversaries may send spearphishing emails with a malicious link in an attempt to gain access to
victim systems. Spearphishing with a link is a speciﬁc variant of spearphishing. It is different from
other forms of spearphishing in that it employs the use of links to download malware contained in
email, instead of attaching malicious ﬁles to the email itself, to avoid defenses that may inspect
email attachments. Spearphishing may also involve social engineering techniques, such as posing
as a trusted source.
.003 Spearphishing via
ServiceAdversaries may send spearphishing messages via third-party services in an attempt to gain access
to victim systems. Spearphishing via service is a speciﬁc variant of spearphishing. It is different from
other forms of spearphishing in that it employs the use of third party services rather than directly via
enterprise email channels.
.004 Spearphishing
VoiceAdversaries may use voice communications to ultimately gain access to victim systems.
Spearphishing voice is a speciﬁc variant of spearphishing. It is different from other forms of
spearphishing in that is employs the use of manipulating a user into providing access to systems
through a phone call or other forms of voice communications. Spearphishing frequently involves
social engineering techniques, such as posing as a trusted source (ex: Impersonation) and/or
creating a sense of urgency or alarm for the recipient.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Initial Access, Tactic TA0001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0001/ 5/6ID Name Description
T1091 Replication
Through
Removable MediaAdversaries may move onto systems, possibly those on disconnected or air-gapped networks, by
copying malware to removable media and taking advantage of Autorun features when the media is
inserted into a system and executes. In the case of Lateral Movement, this may occur through
modiﬁcation of executable ﬁles stored on removable media or by copying malware and renaming it
to look like a legitimate ﬁle to trick users into executing it on a separate system. In the case of Initial
Access, this may occur through manual manipulation of the media, modiﬁcation of systems used to
initially format the media, or modiﬁcation to the media's ﬁrmware itself.
T1195 Supply Chain
CompromiseAdversaries may manipulate products or product delivery mechanisms prior to receipt by a ﬁnal
consumer for the purpose of data or system compromise.
.001 Compromise
Software
Dependencies and
Development ToolsAdversaries may manipulate software dependencies and development tools prior to receipt by a ﬁnal
consumer for the purpose of data or system compromise. Applications often depend on external
software to function properly. Popular open source projects that are used as dependencies in many
applications may be targeted as a means to add malicious code to users of the dependency.
.002 Compromise
Software Supply
ChainAdversaries may manipulate application software prior to receipt by a ﬁnal consumer for the purpose
of data or system compromise. Supply chain compromise of software can take place in a number of
ways, including manipulation of the application source code, manipulation of the update/distribution
mechanism for that software, or replacing compiled releases with a modiﬁed version.
.003 Compromise
Hardware Supply
ChainAdversaries may manipulate hardware components in products prior to receipt by a ﬁnal consumer
for the purpose of data or system compromise. By modifying hardware or ﬁrmware in the supply
chain, adversaries can insert a backdoor into consumer networks that may be diﬃcult to detect and
give the adversary a high degree of control over the system. Hardware backdoors may be inserted
into various devices, such as servers, workstations, network infrastructure, or peripherals.
T1199 Trusted
RelationshipAdversaries may breach or otherwise leverage organizations who have access to intended victims.
Access through trusted third party relationship abuses an existing connection that may not be
protected or receives less scrutiny than standard mechanisms of gaining access to a network.
T1078 Valid Accounts Adversaries may obtain and abuse credentials of existing accounts as a means of gaining Initial
Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Compromised credentials may be used
to bypass access controls placed on various resources on systems within the network and may even
be used for persistent access to remote systems and externally available services, such as VPNs,
Outlook Web Access, network devices, and remote desktop. Compromised credentials may also grant
an adversary increased privilege to speciﬁc systems or access to restricted areas of the network.
Adversaries may choose not to use malware or tools in conjunction with the legitimate access those
credentials provide to make it harder to detect their presence.
.001 Default Accounts Adversaries may obtain and abuse credentials of a default account as a means of gaining Initial
Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Default accounts are those that are
built-into an OS, such as the Guest or Administrator accounts on Windows systems. Default accounts
also include default factory/provider set accounts on other types of systems, software, or devices,
including the root user account in AWS and the default service account in Kubernetes.
.002 Domain Accounts Adversaries may obtain and abuse credentials of a domain account as a means of gaining Initial
Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Domain accounts are those managed
by Active Directory Domain Services where access and permissions are conﬁgured across systems
and services that are part of that domain. Domain accounts can cover users, administrators, and
services.
.003 Local Accounts Adversaries may obtain and abuse credentials of a local account as a means of gaining Initial
Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Local accounts are those conﬁgured by
an organization for use by users, remote support, services, or for administration on a single system or
service.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Initial Access, Tactic TA0001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0001/ 6/6ID Name Description
.004 Cloud Accounts Valid accounts in cloud environments may allow adversaries to perform actions to achieve Initial
Access, Persistence, Privilege Escalation, or Defense Evasion. Cloud accounts are those created and
conﬁgured by an organization for use by users, remote support, services, or for administration of
resources within a cloud service provider or SaaS application. Cloud Accounts can exist solely in the
cloud or be hybrid joined between on-premises systems and the cloud through federation with other
identity sources such as Windows Active Directory.