3/22/24, 3:48 PM Network Service Discovery, Technique T1046 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1046/ 1/8Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:48 PM Network Service Discovery, Technique T1046 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1046/ 2/8Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Network Service Discovery3/22/24, 3:48 PM Network Service Discovery, Technique T1046 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1046/ 3/8Network Service Discovery
Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of services running on remote hosts and local network infrastructure devices, including those that
may be vulnerable to remote software exploitation. Common methods to acquire this information include port and/or vulnerability scans
using tools that are brought onto a system.
Within cloud environments, adversaries may attempt to discover services running on other cloud hosts. Additionally, if the cloud environment
is connected to a on-premises environment, adversaries may be able to identify services running on non-cloud systems as well.
Within macOS environments, adversaries may use the native Bonjour application to discover services running on other macOS hosts within
a network. The Bonjour mDNSResponder daemon automatically registers and advertises a host’s registered services on the network. For
example, adversaries can use a mDNS query (such as dns-sd -B \_ssh.\_tcp . ) to ﬁnd other systems broadcasting the ssh service.[1]
[2][3]
Version PermalinkID: T1046
Sub-techniques:  No sub-techniques

Tactic: Discovery

Platforms: Containers, IaaS, Linux, Network, Windows, macOS
Contributors: Praetorian
Version: 3.1
Created: 31 May 2017
Last Modiﬁed: 11 August 20233/22/24, 3:48 PM Network Service Discovery, Technique T1046 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1046/ 4/8Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0050 APT32 APT32 performed network scanning on the network to search for open ports, services, OS ﬁnger-
printing, and other vulnerabilities.
G0087 APT39 APT39 has used CrackMapExec and a custom port scanner known as BLUETORCH for network
scanning.
G0096 APT41 APT41 used a malware variant called WIDETONE to conduct port scans on speciﬁed subnets.
S0093 Backdoor.Oldrea Backdoor.Oldrea can use a network scanning module to identify ICS-related ports.
G0135 BackdoorDiplomacy BackdoorDiplomacy has used SMBTouch, a vulnerability scanner, to determine whether a target is
vulnerable to EternalBlue malware.
S1081 BADHATCH BADHATCH can check for open ports on a computer by establishing a TCP connection.
S0089 BlackEnergy BlackEnergy has conducted port scans on a host.
G0098 BlackTech BlackTech has used the SNScan tool to ﬁnd other potential targets on victim networks.
S1063 Brute Ratel C4 Brute Ratel C4 can conduct port scanning against targeted systems.
C0018 C0018 During C0018, the threat actors used the SoftPerfect Network Scanner for network scanning.
C0027 C0027 During C0027, used RustScan to scan for open ports on targeted ESXi appliances.
S0572 Caterpillar WebShell Caterpillar WebShell has a module to use a port scanner on a system.
G0114 Chimera Chimera has used the get -b -e -p command for network scanning as well as a custom Python tool
packed into a Windows executable named Get.exe to scan IP ranges for HTTP.
S0020 China Chopper China Chopper's server component can spider authentication portals.
G0080 Cobalt Group Cobalt Group leveraged an open-source tool called SoftPerfect Network Scanner to perform network
scanning.
S0154 Cobalt Strike Cobalt Strike can perform port scans from an infected host.
S0608 Conﬁcker Conﬁcker scans for other machines to infect.
C0004 CostaRicto During CostaRicto, the threat actors employed nmap and pscan to scan target environments.
G0105 DarkVishnya DarkVishnya performed port scanning to obtain the list of active services.
S0363 Empire Empire can perform port scans from an infected host.
G1016 FIN13 FIN13 has utilized nmap for reconnaissance efforts. FIN13 has also scanned for internal MS-SQL
servers in a compromised network.
G0037 FIN6 FIN6 used publicly available tools (including Microsoft's built-in SQL querying tool, osql.exe) to map
the internal network and conduct reconnaissance against Active Directory, Structured Query Language
(SQL) servers, and NetBIOS.
G0117 Fox Kitten Fox Kitten has used tools including NMAP to conduct broad scanning to identify open ports.
S0061 HDoor HDoor scans to identify open ports on the victim.[4]
[5][6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]
[12]
[13]
[14]
[15]
[16]
[17]
[18]
[19][20][21]
[22][23][24]
[25]
[26]
[27]
[28]
[29][30]
[31]
[32][33]
[34]3/22/24, 3:48 PM Network Service Discovery, Technique T1046 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1046/ 5/8ID Name Description
S0698 HermeticWizard HermeticWizard has the ability to scan ports on a compromised network.
S0601 Hildegard Hildegard has used masscan to look for kubelets in the internal Kubernetes network.
S0604 Industroyer Industroyer uses a custom port scanner to map out a network.
S0260 InvisiMole InvisiMole can scan the network for open ports and vulnerable instances of RDP and SMB protocols.
S0250 Koadic Koadic can scan for open TCP ports on the target network.
G0032 Lazarus Group Lazarus Group has used nmap from a router VM to scan ports on systems within the restricted
segment of an enterprise network.
G0077 Leafminer Leafminer scanned network services to search for vulnerabilities in the victim system.
S0532 Lucifer Lucifer can scan for open ports including TCP ports 135 and 1433.
G0059 Magic Hound Magic Hound has used KPortScan 3.0 to perform SMB, RDP, and LDAP scanning.
G0045 menuPass menuPass has used tcping.exe, similar to Ping, to probe port status on systems of interest.
S0233 MURKYTOP MURKYTOP has the capability to scan for open ports on hosts in a connected network.
G0019 Naikon Naikon has used the LadonGo scanner to scan target networks.
S0590 NBTscan NBTscan can be used to scan IP networks.
G0049 OilRig OilRig has used the publicly available tool SoftPerfect Network Scanner as well as a custom tool
called GOLDIRONY to conduct network scanning.
C0014 Operation Wocao During Operation Wocao, threat actors scanned for open ports and used nbtscan to ﬁnd NETBIOS
nameservers.
S0598 P.A.S. Webshell P.A.S. Webshell can scan networks for open ports and listening services.
S0683 Peirates Peirates can initiate a port scan against a given IP address.
S0378 PoshC2 PoshC2 can perform port scans from an infected host.
S0192 Pupy Pupy has a built-in module for port scanning.
S0583 Pysa Pysa can perform network reconnaissance using the Advanced Port Scanner tool.
S0458 Ramsay Ramsay can scan for systems that are vulnerable to the EternalBlue exploit.
S0125 Remsec Remsec has a plugin that can perform ARP scanning as well as port scanning.
G0106 Rocke Rocke conducted scanning for exposed TCP port 7001 as well as SSH and Redis servers.
S1073 Royal Royal can scan the network interfaces of targeted systems.
S0692 SILENTTRINITY SILENTTRINITY can scan for open ports on a compromised machine.
S0374 SpeakUp SpeakUp checks for availability of speciﬁc ports on servers.
G0039 Suckﬂy Suckﬂy the victim's internal network for hosts with ports 8080, 5900, and 40 open.[35]
[36]
[37]
[38]
[39]
[40]
[41]
[42]
[43]
[44]
[18]
[45]
[46][47]
[48]
[49]
[50]
[51]
[52]
[53]
[54]
[55][56]
[57]
[58][59]
[60]
[61]
[62]
[63]3/22/24, 3:48 PM Network Service Discovery, Technique T1046 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1046/ 6/8ID Name Description
G0139 TeamTNT TeamTNT has used masscan to search for open Docker API ports and Kubernetes clusters.
TeamTNT has also used malware that utilizes zmap and zgrab to search for vulnerable services in
cloud environments.
G0027 Threat Group-3390 Threat Group-3390 actors use the Hunter tool to conduct network service discovery for vulnerable
systems.
G0081 Tropic Trooper Tropic Trooper used pr and an openly available tool to scan for open ports on target systems.
S0341 Xbash Xbash can perform port scanning of TCP and UDP ports.
S0117 XTunnel XTunnel is capable of probing the network for open ports.
S0412 ZxShell ZxShell can launch port scans.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1042 Disable or Remove Feature or
ProgramEnsure that unnecessary ports and services are closed to prevent risk of discovery and
potential exploitation.
M1031 Network Intrusion Prevention Use network intrusion detection/prevention systems to detect and prevent remote service
scans.
M1030 Network Segmentation Ensure proper network segmentation is followed to protect critical servers and devices.
Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0025 Cloud Service Cloud Service
EnumerationCloud service discovery techniques will likely occur throughout an operation where an
adversary is targeting cloud-based systems and services. Data and events should not be
viewed in isolation, but as part of a chain of behavior that could lead to other activities
based on the information obtained.Normal, benign system and network events that look
like cloud service discovery may be uncommon, depending on the environment and how
they are used. Monitor cloud service usage for anomalous behavior that may indicate
adversarial presence within the environment.
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to get a listing of
services running on remote hosts, including those that may be vulnerable to remote
software exploitation.
DS0029 Network TraﬃcNetwork Traﬃc
FlowMonitor network data for uncommon data ﬂows. Processes utilizing the network that do
not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are
suspicious. It should be noted that when a host/ port/ service scan is performed from a
compromised machine, a single machine makes multiple calls to other hosts in the
network to identify live hosts and services.
After compromising an initial machine, adversaries commonly attempt to laterally move
across the network. The ﬁrst step to attempt the Lateral Movement often involves
conducting host identiﬁcation, port and service scans on the internal network via the
compromised machine using tools such as Nmap, Cobalt Strike, etc.
Analytic 1 - Identifying Port Scanning Activity
flow = filter flow where (src\_type = "firewall\_logs" AND dest\_ip =
"internal\_subnet" )[64][36][65]
[66]
[67][68]
[69][70]
[71]
[72]
[7][73]3/22/24, 3:48 PM Network Service Discovery, Technique T1046 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1046/ 7/8References
1. CISA. (2021, May 6). Analysis Report (AR21-126A) FiveHands
Ransomware. Retrieved June 7, 2021.
2. Apple Inc. (2013, April 23). Bonjour Overview. Retrieved
October 11, 2021.
3. Jaron Bradley. (2021, November 14). What does APT Activity
Look Like on macOS?. Retrieved January 19, 2022.
4. Dahan, A. (2017). Operation Cobalt Kitty. Retrieved December
27, 2018.
5. Hawley et al. (2019, January 29). APT39: An Iranian Cyber
Espionage Group Focused on Personal Information. Retrieved
February 19, 2019.
. Rusu, B. (2020, May 21). Iranian Chafer APT Targeted Air
Transportation and Government in Kuwait and Saudi Arabia.
Retrieved May 22, 2020.
7. Fraser, N., et al. (2019, August 7). Double DragonAPT41, a
dual espionage and cyber crime operation APT41. Retrieved
September 23, 2019.
. Slowik, J. (2021, October). THE BAFFLING BERSERK BEAR: A
DECADE’S ACTIVITY TARGETING CRITICAL
INFRASTRUCTURE. Retrieved December 6, 2021.
9. Adam Burgher. (2021, June 10). BackdoorDiplomacy:
Upgrading from Quarian to Turian. Retrieved September 1,
2021
10. Vrabie, V., et al. (2021, March 10). FIN8 Returns with Improved
BADHATCH Toolkit. Retrieved September 8, 2021.
11. Baumgartner, K. and Garnaeva, M.. (2014, November 3). BE2
custom plugins, router abuse, and target proﬁles. Retrieved
March 24, 2016.
12. Threat Intelligence. (2020, September 29). Palmerworm:
Espionage Gang Targets the Media, Finance, and Other
Sectors. Retrieved March 25, 2022.
13. Harbison, M. and Renals, P. (2022, July 5). When Pentest Tools
Go Brutal: Red-Teaming Tool Being Abused by Malicious
Actors. Retrieved February 1, 2023.
14. Venere, G. Neal, C. (2022, June 21). Avos ransomware group
expands with new attack arsenal. Retrieved January 11, 2023.
15. Parisi, T. (2022, December 2). Not a SIMulation: CrowdStrike
Investigations Reveal Intrusion Campaign Targeting Telco and
BPO Companies. Retrieved June 30, 2023.
1. ClearSky Cyber Security. (2021, January). “Lebanese Cedar”
APT Global Lebanese Espionage Campaign Leveraging Web
Servers. Retrieved February 10, 2021.
17. Jansen, W . (2021, January 12). Abusing cloud services to ﬂy
under the radar. Retrieved January 19, 2021.
1. FireEye. (2018, March 16). Suspected Chinese Cyber
Espionage Group (TEMP.Periscope) Targeting U.S. Engineering
and Maritime Industries. Retrieved April 11, 2018.
19. Positive Technologies. (2017, August 16). Cobalt Strikes Back:
An Evolving Multinational Threat to Finance. Retrieved
September 5, 2018.
20. Positive Technologies. (2016, December 16). Cobalt Snatch.
Retrieved October 9, 2018.
21. Matveeva, V. (2017, August 15). Secrets of Cobalt. Retrieved
October 10, 2018.
22. Strategic Cyber LLC. (2017, March 14). Cobalt Strike Manual.
Retrieved May 24, 2017.
23. Mavis, N. (2020, September 21). The Art and Science of
Detecting Cobalt Strike. Retrieved April 6, 2021.3. Hromcova, Z. and Cherpanov, A. (2020, June). INVISIMOLE:
THE HIDDEN PART OF THE STORY. Retrieved July 16, 2020.
39. Magius, J., et al. (2017, July 19). Koadic. Retrieved June 18,
2018.
40. Vyacheslav Kopeytsev and Seongsu Park. (2021, February
25). Lazarus targets defense industry with ThreatNeedle.
Retrieved October 27, 2021.
41. Symantec Security Response. (2018, July 25). Leafminer: New
Espionage Campaigns Targeting Middle Eastern Regions.
Retrieved August 28, 2018.
42. Hsu, K. et al. (2020, June 24). Lucifer: New Cryptojacking and
DDoS Hybrid Malware Exploiting High and Critical
Vulnerabilities to Infect Windows Devices. Retrieved November
16, 2020.
43. DFIR Report. (2021, November 15). Exchange Exploit Leads to
Domain Wide Ransomware. Retrieved January 5, 2023.
44. PwC and BAE Systems. (2017, April). Operation Cloud Hopper:
Technical Annex. Retrieved April 13, 2017.
45. Vrabie, V. (2021, April 23). NAIKON – Traces from a Military
Cyber-Espionage Operation. Retrieved June 29, 2021.
4. Bezroutchko, A. (2019, November 19). NBTscan man page.
Retrieved March 17, 2021.
47. SecTools. (2003, June 11). NBTscan. Retrieved March 17,
2021.
4. Davis, S. and Caban, D. (2017, December 19). APT34 - New
Targeted Attack in the Middle East. Retrieved December 20,
2017.
49. Dantzig, M. v., Schamper, E. (2019, December 19). Operation
Wocao: Shining a light on one of China’s hidden hacking
groups. Retrieved October 8, 2020.
50. ANSSI. (2021, January 27). SANDWORM INTRUSION SET
CAMPAIGN TARGETING CENTREON SYSTEMS. Retrieved
March 30, 2021.
51. InGuardians. (2022, January 5). Peirates GitHub. Retrieved
February 8, 2022.
52. Nettitude. (2018, July 23). Python Server for PoshC2.
Retrieved April 23, 2019.
53. Nicolas Verdier. (n.d.). Retrieved January 29, 2018.
54. CERT-FR. (2020, April 1). ATTACKS INVOLVING THE
MESPINOZA/PYSA RANSOMWARE. Retrieved March 1, 2021.
55. Sanmillan, I.. (2020, May 13). Ramsay: A cyber‑espionage
toolkit tailored for air‑gapped networks. Retrieved May 27,
2020.
5. Antiy CERT. (2020, April 20). Analysis of Ramsay components
of Darkhotel's inﬁltration and isolation network. Retrieved
March 24, 2021.
57. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis Team. (2016,
August 9). The ProjectSauron APT. Technical Analysis.
Retrieved August 17, 2016.
5. Liebenberg, D.. (2018, August 30). Rocke: The Champion of
Monero Miners. Retrieved May 26, 2020.
59. Anomali Labs. (2019, March 15). Rocke Evolves Its Arsenal
With a New Malware Family Written in Golang. Retrieved April
24, 2019.
0. Cybereason Global SOC and Cybereason Security Research
Teams. (2022, December 14). Royal Rumble: Analysis of
Royal Ransomware. Retrieved March 30, 2023.
1. Salvati, M. (2019, August 6). SILENTTRINITY Modules.
Retrieved March 24, 2022.3/22/24, 3:48 PM Network Service Discovery, Technique T1046 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1046/ 8/824. Strategic Cyber LLC. (2020, November 5). Cobalt Strike:
Advanced Threat Tactics for Penetration Testers. Retrieved
April 13, 2021.
25. Burton, K. (n.d.). The Conﬁcker Worm. Retrieved February 18,
2021.
2. The BlackBerry Research and Intelligence Team. (2020,
November 12). The CostaRicto Campaign: Cyber-Espionage
Outsourced. Retrieved May 24, 2021.
27. Golovanov, S. (2018, December 6). DarkVishnya: Banks
attacked through direct connection to local network. Retrieved
May 15, 2020.
2. Schroeder, W., Warner, J., Nelson, M. (n.d.). Github
PowerShellEmpire. Retrieved April 28, 2016.
29. Ta, V., et al. (2022, August 8). FIN13: A Cybercriminal Threat
Actor Focused on Mexico. Retrieved February 9, 2023.
30. Sygnia Incident Response Team. (2022, January 5). TG2003:
ELEPHANT BEETLE UNCOVERING AN ORGANIZED
FINANCIAL-THEFT OPERATION. Retrieved February 9, 2023.
31. FireEye Threat Intelligence. (2016, April). Follow the Money:
Dissecting the Operations of the Cyber Crime Group FIN6.
Retrieved June 1, 2016.
32. CISA. (2020, September 15). Iran-Based Threat Actor Exploits
VPN Vulnerabilities. Retrieved December 21, 2020.
33. ClearSky. (2020, December 17). Pay2Key Ransomware – A
New Campaign by Fox Kitten. Retrieved December 21, 2020.
34. Baumgartner, K., Golovkin, M.. (2015, May). The MsnMM
Campaigns: The Earliest Naikon APT Campaigns. Retrieved
April 10, 2019.
35. ESET. (2022, March 1). IsaacWiper and HermeticWizard: New
wiper and worm targetingUkraine. Retrieved April 10, 2022.
3. Chen, J. et al. (2021, February 3). Hildegard: New TeamTNT
Cryptojacking Malware Targeting Kubernetes. Retrieved April
5, 2021.
37. Anton Cherepanov. (2017, June 12). Win32/Industroyer: A new
threat for industrial controls systems. Retrieved December 18,
2020.2. Check Point Research. (2019, February 4). SpeakUp: A New
Undetected Backdoor Linux Trojan. Retrieved April 17, 2019.
3. DiMaggio, J. (2016, May 17). Indian organizations targeted in
Suckﬂy attacks. Retrieved August 3, 2016.
4. Cado Security. (2020, August 16). Team TNT – The First
Crypto-Mining Worm to Steal AWS Credentials. Retrieved
September 22, 2021.
5. Darin Smith. (2022, April 21). TeamTNT targeting AWS,
Alibaba. Retrieved August 4, 2022.
. Quist, N. (2020, October 5). Black-T: New Cryptojacking
Variant from TeamTNT. Retrieved September 22, 2021.
7. Dell SecureWorks Counter Threat Unit Threat Intelligence.
(2015, August 5). Threat Group-3390 Targets Organizations
for Cyberespionage. Retrieved August 18, 2018.
. Falcone, R. and Lancaster, T. (2019, May 28). Emissary Panda
Attacks Middle East Government Sharepoint Servers.
Retrieved July 9, 2019.
9. Alintanahin, K. (2015). Operation Tropic Trooper: Relying on
Tried-and-Tested Flaws to Inﬁltrate Secret Keepers. Retrieved
June 14, 2019.
70. Chen, J.. (2020, May 12). Tropic Trooper’s Back: USBferry
Attack Targets Air gapped Environments. Retrieved May 20,
2020.
71. Xiao, C. (2018, September 17). Xbash Combines Botnet,
Ransomware, Coinmining in Worm that Targets Linux and
Windows. Retrieved November 14, 2018.
72. Belcher, P.. (2016, July 28). Tunnel of Gov: DNC Hack and the
Russian XTunnel. Retrieved August 3, 2016.
73. Allievi, A., et al. (2014, October 28). Threat Spotlight: Group 72,
Opening the ZxShell. Retrieved September 24, 2019.