3/22/24, 3:41 PM Access Token Manipulation: Token Impersonation/Theft, Sub-technique T1134.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1134/001/ 1/5Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:41 PM Access Token Manipulation: Token Impersonation/Theft, Sub-technique T1134.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1134/001/ 2/5Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Access Token Manipulation>Token Impersonation/Theft3/22/24, 3:41 PM Access Token Manipulation: Token Impersonation/Theft, Sub-technique T1134.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1134/001/ 3/5Access Token Manipulation: Token Impersonation/Theft
Adversaries may duplicate then impersonate another user's existing token to escalate privileges and bypass access controls. For example,
an adversary can duplicate an existing token using DuplicateToken or DuplicateTokenEx . The token can then be used with
ImpersonateLoggedOnUser to allow the calling thread to impersonate a logged on user's security context, or with SetThreadToken to
assign the impersonated token to a thread.
An adversary may perform Token Impersonation/Theft when they have a speciﬁc, existing process they want to assign the duplicated token
to. For example, this may be useful for when the target user has a non-network logon session on the system.
When an adversary would instead use a duplicated token to create a new process rather than attaching to an existing process, they can
additionally Create Process with Token using CreateProcessWithTokenW or CreateProcessAsUserW . Token Impersonation/Theft is also
distinct from Make and Impersonate Token in that it refers to duplicating an existing token, rather than creating a new one.Other sub-techniques of Access Token Manipulation (5)
Version PermalinkID: T1134.001
Sub-technique of:  T1134

Tactics: Defense Evasion, Privilege Escalation

Platforms: Windows

Defense Bypassed: File system access controls, System access controls, Windows User Account Control
Contributors: Jonny Johnson
Version: 1.2
Created: 18 February 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 29 September 20233/22/24, 3:41 PM Access Token Manipulation: Token Impersonation/Theft, Sub-technique T1134.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1134/001/ 4/5Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0007 APT28 APT28 has used CVE-2015-1701 to access the SYSTEM token and copy it into the current process as part
of privilege escalation.
S0456 Aria-body Aria-body has the ability to duplicate a token from ntprint.exe.
S1081 BADHATCH BADHATCH can impersonate a lsass.exe or vmtoolsd.exe token.
S0570 BitPaymer BitPaymer can use the tokens of users to create processes on infected systems.
S0154 Cobalt Strike Cobalt Strike can steal access tokens from exiting processes.
S0367 Emotet Emotet has the ability to duplicate the user’s token.
G0061 FIN8 FIN8 has used a malicious framework designed to impersonate the lsass.exe/vmtoolsd.exe token.
S0182 FinFisher FinFisher uses token manipulation with NtFilterToken as part of UAC bypass.
S0439 Okrum Okrum can impersonate a logged-on user's security context using a call to the ImpersonateLoggedOnUser
API.
S0192 Pupy Pupy can obtain a list of SIDs and provide the option for selecting process tokens to impersonate.
S0496 REvil REvil can obtain the token from the user that launched the explorer.exe process to avoid affecting the
desktop of the SYSTEM user.
S0140 Shamoon Shamoon can impersonate tokens using LogonUser , ImpersonateLoggedOnUser , and
ImpersonateNamedPipeClient .
S0692 SILENTTRINITY SILENTTRINITY can ﬁnd a process owned by a speciﬁc user and impersonate the associated token.
S0623 Siloscape Siloscape impersonates the main thread of CExecSvc.exe by calling NtImpersonateThread .
S0603 Stuxnet Stuxnet attempts to impersonate an anonymous token to enumerate bindings in the service control
manager.
S1011 Tarrask Tarrask leverages token theft to obtain lsass.exe security permissions.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1026 Privileged
Account
ManagementLimit permissions so that users and user groups cannot create tokens. This setting should be deﬁned for
the local system account only. GPO: Computer Conﬁguration > [Policies] > Windows Settings > Security
Settings > Local Policies > User Rights Assignment: Create a token object. Also deﬁne who can create
a process level token to only the local and network service through GPO: Computer Conﬁguration >
[Policies] > Windows Settings > Security Settings > Local Policies > User Rights Assignment: Replace a
process level token.
Administrators should log in as a standard user but run their tools with administrator privileges using the
built-in access token manipulation command runas .
M1018 User Account
ManagementAn adversary must already have administrator level access on the local system to make full use of this
technique; be sure to restrict users and accounts to the least privileges they require.[1]
[2]
[3]
[4]
[5][6]
[7]
[8][9]
[10][11]
[12]
[13]
[14]
[15]
[16]
[17]
[18]
[19]
[20]
[21]
[22]3/22/24, 3:41 PM Access Token Manipulation: Token Impersonation/Theft, Sub-technique T1134.001 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1134/001/ 5/5Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments to detect token manipulation by auditing
command-line activity. Speciﬁcally, analysts should look for use of the runas command.
Detailed command-line logging is not enabled by default in Windows.
DS0009 Process OS API
ExecutionMonitor for API calls associated with other suspicious behavior to reduce false positives that
may be due to normal benign use by users and administrators, such as DuplicateToken(Ex),
ImpersonateLoggedOnUser , and SetThreadToken.
References[23]
1. FireEye Labs. (2015, April 18). Operation RussianDoll: Adobe &
Windows Zero-Day Exploits Likely Leveraged by Russia’s
APT28 in Highly-Targeted Attack. Retrieved April 24, 2017.
2. CheckPoint. (2020, May 7). Naikon APT: Cyber Espionage
Reloaded. Retrieved May 26, 2020.
3. Vrabie, V., et al. (2021, March 10). FIN8 Returns with Improved
BADHATCH Toolkit. Retrieved September 8, 2021.
4. Frankoff, S., Hartley, B. (2018, November 14). Big Game
Hunting: The Evolution of INDRIK SPIDER From Dridex Wire
Fraud to BitPaymer Targeted Ransomware. Retrieved January
6, 2021.
5. Strategic Cyber LLC. (2017, March 14). Cobalt Strike Manual.
Retrieved May 24, 2017.
. Strategic Cyber LLC. (2020, November 5). Cobalt Strike:
Advanced Threat Tactics for Penetration Testers. Retrieved
April 13, 2021.
7. Binary Defense. (n.d.). Emotet Evolves With new Wi-Fi
Spreader. Retrieved September 8, 2023.
. Martin Zugec. (2021, July 27). Deep Dive Into a FIN8 Attack - A
Forensic Investigation. Retrieved September 1, 2021.
9. Symantec Threat Hunter Team. (2023, July 18). FIN8 Uses
Revamped Sardonic Backdoor to Deliver Noberus
Ransomware. Retrieved August 9, 2023.
10. FinFisher. (n.d.). Retrieved December 20, 2017.
11. Allievi, A.,Flori, E. (2018, March 01). FinFisher exposed: A
researcher’s tale of defeating traps, tricks, and complex virtual
machines. Retrieved July 9, 2018.
12. Hromcova, Z. (2019, July). OKRUM AND KETRICAN: AN
OVERVIEW OF RECENT KE3CHANG GROUP ACTIVITY.
Retrieved May 6, 2020.13. Nicolas Verdier. (n.d.). Retrieved January 29, 2018.
14. McAfee. (2019, October 2). McAfee ATR Analyzes Sodinokibi
aka REvil Ransomware-as-a-Service – What The Code Tells
Us. Retrieved August 4, 2020.
15. Mundo, A., Roccia, T., Saavedra-Morales, J., Beek, C.. (2018,
December 14). Shamoon Returns to Wipe Systems in Middle
East, Europe . Retrieved May 29, 2020.
1. Salvati, M. (2019, August 6). SILENTTRINITY Modules.
Retrieved March 24, 2022.
17. Prizmant, D. (2021, June 7). Siloscape: First Known Malware
Targeting Windows Containers to Compromise Cloud
Environments. Retrieved June 9, 2021.
1. Nicolas Falliere, Liam O Murchu, Eric Chien 2011, February
W32.Stuxnet Dossier (Version 1.4) Retrieved. 2017/09/22
19. Microsoft Threat Intelligence Team & Detection and Response
Team . (2022, April 12). Tarrask malware uses scheduled
tasks for defense evasion. Retrieved June 1, 2022.
20. Brower, N., Lich, B. (2017, April 19). Create a token object.
Retrieved December 19, 2017.
21. Brower, N., Lich, B. (2017, April 19). Replace a process level
token. Retrieved December 19, 2017.
22. Microsoft TechNet. (n.d.). Runas. Retrieved April 21, 2017.
23. Mathers, B. (2017, March 7). Command line process auditing.
Retrieved April 21, 2017.