3/22/24, 3:32 PM Collection, Tactic TA0009 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0009/ 1/7Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Collection, Tactic TA0009 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0009/ 2/7Home>Tactics>Enterprise>Collection3/22/24, 3:32 PM Collection, Tactic TA0009 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0009/ 3/7C o l l e c t i o n
T e c h n i q u e s
Techniques: 17The adversary is trying to gather data of interest to their goal.
Collection consists of techniques adversaries may use to gather information and the sources information is collected from that are relevant
to following through on the adversary's objectives. Frequently, the next goal after collecting data is to steal (exﬁltrate) the data. Common
target sources include various drive types, browsers, audio, video, and email. Common collection methods include capturing screenshots and
keyboard input.
Version PermalinkID: TA0009
Created: 17 October 2018
Last Modiﬁed: 19 July 20193/22/24, 3:32 PM Collection, Tactic TA0009 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0009/ 4/7ID Name Description
T1557 Adversary-in-
the-MiddleAdversaries may attempt to position themselves between two or more networked devices using an
adversary-in-the-middle (AiTM) technique to support follow-on behaviors such as Network Sniﬃng,
Transmitted Data Manipulation, or replay attacks (Exploitation for Credential Access). By abusing
features of common networking protocols that can determine the ﬂow of network traﬃc (e.g. ARP, DNS,
LLMNR, etc.), adversaries may force a device to communicate through an adversary controlled system
so they can collect information or perform additional actions.
.001 LLMNR/NBT-NS
Poisoning and
SMB RelayBy responding to LLMNR/NBT-NS network traﬃc, adversaries may spoof an authoritative source for
name resolution to force communication with an adversary controlled system. This activity may be used
to collect or relay authentication materials.
.002 ARP Cache
PoisoningAdversaries may poison Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) caches to position themselves between the
communication of two or more networked devices. This activity may be used to enable follow-on
behaviors such as Network Sniﬃng or Transmitted Data Manipulation.
.003 DHCP Spooﬁng Adversaries may redirect network traﬃc to adversary-owned systems by spooﬁng Dynamic Host
Conﬁguration Protocol (DHCP) traﬃc and acting as a malicious DHCP server on the victim network. By
achieving the adversary-in-the-middle (AiTM) position, adversaries may collect network communications,
including passed credentials, especially those sent over insecure, unencrypted protocols. This may also
enable follow-on behaviors such as Network Sniﬃng or Transmitted Data Manipulation.
T1560 Archive
Collected DataAn adversary may compress and/or encrypt data that is collected prior to exﬁltration. Compressing the
data can help to obfuscate the collected data and minimize the amount of data sent over the network.
Encryption can be used to hide information that is being exﬁltrated from detection or make exﬁltration
less conspicuous upon inspection by a defender.
.001 Archive via
UtilityAdversaries may use utilities to compress and/or encrypt collected data prior to exﬁltration. Many
utilities include functionalities to compress, encrypt, or otherwise package data into a format that is
easier/more secure to transport.
.002 Archive via
LibraryAn adversary may compress or encrypt data that is collected prior to exﬁltration using 3rd party libraries.
Many libraries exist that can archive data, including Python rarﬁle , libzip , and zlib . Most libraries
include functionality to encrypt and/or compress data.
.003 Archive via
Custom MethodAn adversary may compress or encrypt data that is collected prior to exﬁltration using a custom method.
Adversaries may choose to use custom archival methods, such as encryption with XOR or stream
ciphers implemented with no external library or utility references. Custom implementations of well-
known compression algorithms have also been used.
T1123 Audio Capture An adversary can leverage a computer's peripheral devices (e.g., microphones and webcams) or
applications (e.g., voice and video call services) to capture audio recordings for the purpose of listening
into sensitive conversations to gather information.
T1119 Automated
CollectionOnce established within a system or network, an adversary may use automated techniques for collecting
internal data. Methods for performing this technique could include use of a Command and Scripting
Interpreter to search for and copy information ﬁtting set criteria such as ﬁle type, location, or name at
speciﬁc time intervals. In cloud-based environments, adversaries may also use cloud APIs, command
line interfaces, or extract, transform, and load (ETL) services to automatically collect data. This
functionality could also be built into remote access tools.
T1185 Browser
Session
HijackingAdversaries may take advantage of security vulnerabilities and inherent functionality in browser
software to change content, modify user-behaviors, and intercept information as part of various browser
session hijacking techniques.
T1115 Clipboard Data Adversaries may collect data stored in the clipboard from users copying information within or between
applications.
T1530 Data from
Cloud StorageAdversaries may access data from cloud storage.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Collection, Tactic TA0009 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0009/ 5/7ID Name Description
T1602 Data from
Conﬁguration
RepositoryAdversaries may collect data related to managed devices from conﬁguration repositories. Conﬁguration
repositories are used by management systems in order to conﬁgure, manage, and control data on
remote systems. Conﬁguration repositories may also facilitate remote access and administration of
devices.
.001 SNMP (MIB
Dump)Adversaries may target the Management Information Base (MIB) to collect and/or mine valuable
information in a network managed using Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP).
.002 Network Device
Conﬁguration
DumpAdversaries may access network conﬁguration ﬁles to collect sensitive data about the device and the
network. The network conﬁguration is a ﬁle containing parameters that determine the operation of the
device. The device typically stores an in-memory copy of the conﬁguration while operating, and a
separate conﬁguration on non-volatile storage to load after device reset. Adversaries can inspect the
conﬁguration ﬁles to reveal information about the target network and its layout, the network device and
its software, or identifying legitimate accounts and credentials for later use.
T1213 Data from
Information
RepositoriesAdversaries may leverage information repositories to mine valuable information. Information
repositories are tools that allow for storage of information, typically to facilitate collaboration or
information sharing between users, and can store a wide variety of data that may aid adversaries in
further objectives, or direct access to the target information. Adversaries may also abuse external
sharing features to share sensitive documents with recipients outside of the organization.
.001 Conﬂuence Adversaries may leverage Conﬂuence repositories to mine valuable information. Often found in
development environments alongside Atlassian JIRA, Conﬂuence is generally used to store development-
related documentation, however, in general may contain more diverse categories of useful information,
such as:
.002 Sharepoint Adversaries may leverage the SharePoint repository as a source to mine valuable information.
SharePoint will often contain useful information for an adversary to learn about the structure and
functionality of the internal network and systems. For example, the following is a list of example
information that may hold potential value to an adversary and may also be found on SharePoint:
.003 Code
RepositoriesAdversaries may leverage code repositories to collect valuable information. Code repositories are
tools/services that store source code and automate software builds. They may be hosted internally or
privately on third party sites such as Github, GitLab, SourceForge, and BitBucket. Users typically interact
with code repositories through a web application or command-line utilities such as git.
T1005 Data from Local
SystemAdversaries may search local system sources, such as ﬁle systems and conﬁguration ﬁles or local
databases, to ﬁnd ﬁles of interest and sensitive data prior to Exﬁltration.
T1039 Data from
Network Shared
DriveAdversaries may search network shares on computers they have compromised to ﬁnd ﬁles of interest.
Sensitive data can be collected from remote systems via shared network drives (host shared directory,
network ﬁle server, etc.) that are accessible from the current system prior to Exﬁltration. Interactive
command shells may be in use, and common functionality within cmd may be used to gather
information.
T1025 Data from
Removable
MediaAdversaries may search connected removable media on computers they have compromised to ﬁnd ﬁles
of interest. Sensitive data can be collected from any removable media (optical disk drive, USB memory,
etc.) connected to the compromised system prior to Exﬁltration. Interactive command shells may be in
use, and common functionality within cmd may be used to gather information.
T1074 Data Staged Adversaries may stage collected data in a central location or directory prior to Exﬁltration. Data may be
kept in separate ﬁles or combined into one ﬁle through techniques such as Archive Collected Data.
Interactive command shells may be used, and common functionality within cmd and bash may be used
to copy data into a staging location.
.001 Local Data
StagingAdversaries may stage collected data in a central location or directory on the local system prior to
Exﬁltration. Data may be kept in separate ﬁles or combined into one ﬁle through techniques such as
Archive Collected Data. Interactive command shells may be used, and common functionality within cmd
and bash may be used to copy data into a staging location.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Collection, Tactic TA0009 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0009/ 6/7ID Name Description
.002 Remote Data
StagingAdversaries may stage data collected from multiple systems in a central location or directory on one
system prior to Exﬁltration. Data may be kept in separate ﬁles or combined into one ﬁle through
techniques such as Archive Collected Data. Interactive command shells may be used, and common
functionality within cmd and bash may be used to copy data into a staging location.
T1114 Email Collection Adversaries may target user email to collect sensitive information. Emails may contain sensitive data,
including trade secrets or personal information, that can prove valuable to adversaries. Adversaries can
collect or forward email from mail servers or clients.
.001 Local Email
CollectionAdversaries may target user email on local systems to collect sensitive information. Files containing
email data can be acquired from a user’s local system, such as Outlook storage or cache ﬁles.
.002 Remote Email
CollectionAdversaries may target an Exchange server, Oﬃce 365, or Google Workspace to collect sensitive
information. Adversaries may leverage a user's credentials and interact directly with the Exchange server
to acquire information from within a network. Adversaries may also access externally facing Exchange
services, Oﬃce 365, or Google Workspace to access email using credentials or access tokens. Tools
such as MailSniper can be used to automate searches for speciﬁc keywords.
.003 Email
Forwarding RuleAdversaries may setup email forwarding rules to collect sensitive information. Adversaries may abuse
email forwarding rules to monitor the activities of a victim, steal information, and further gain
intelligence on the victim or the victim’s organization to use as part of further exploits or operations.
Furthermore, email forwarding rules can allow adversaries to maintain persistent access to victim's
emails even after compromised credentials are reset by administrators. Most email clients allow users to
create inbox rules for various email functions, including forwarding to a different recipient. These rules
may be created through a local email application, a web interface, or by command-line interface.
Messages can be forwarded to internal or external recipients, and there are no restrictions limiting the
extent of this rule. Administrators may also create forwarding rules for user accounts with the same
considerations and outcomes.
T1056 Input Capture Adversaries may use methods of capturing user input to obtain credentials or collect information. During
normal system usage, users often provide credentials to various different locations, such as login
pages/portals or system dialog boxes. Input capture mechanisms may be transparent to the user (e.g.
Credential API Hooking) or rely on deceiving the user into providing input into what they believe to be a
genuine service (e.g. Web Portal Capture).
.001 Keylogging Adversaries may log user keystrokes to intercept credentials as the user types them. Keylogging is likely
to be used to acquire credentials for new access opportunities when OS Credential Dumping efforts are
not effective, and may require an adversary to intercept keystrokes on a system for a substantial period
of time before credentials can be successfully captured. In order to increase the likelihood of capturing
credentials quickly, an adversary may also perform actions such as clearing browser cookies to force
users to reauthenticate to systems.
.002 GUI Input
CaptureAdversaries may mimic common operating system GUI components to prompt users for credentials with
a seemingly legitimate prompt. When programs are executed that need additional privileges than are
present in the current user context, it is common for the operating system to prompt the user for proper
credentials to authorize the elevated privileges for the task (ex: Bypass User Account Control).
.003 Web Portal
CaptureAdversaries may install code on externally facing portals, such as a VPN login page, to capture and
transmit credentials of users who attempt to log into the service. For example, a compromised login
page may log provided user credentials before logging the user in to the service.
.004 Credential API
HookingAdversaries may hook into Windows application programming interface (API) functions to collect user
credentials. Malicious hooking mechanisms may capture API calls that include parameters that reveal
user authentication credentials. Unlike Keylogging, this technique focuses speciﬁcally on API functions
that include parameters that reveal user credentials. Hooking involves redirecting calls to these functions
and can be implemented via:
T1113 Screen Capture Adversaries may attempt to take screen captures of the desktop to gather information over the course of
an operation. Screen capturing functionality may be included as a feature of a remote access tool used
in post-compromise operations. Taking a screenshot is also typically possible through native utilities or
API calls, such as CopyFromScreen , xwd, or screencapture .3/22/24, 3:32 PM Collection, Tactic TA0009 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0009/ 7/7ID Name Description
T1125 Video Capture An adversary can leverage a computer's peripheral devices (e.g., integrated cameras or webcams) or
applications (e.g., video call services) to capture video recordings for the purpose of gathering
information. Images may also be captured from devices or applications, potentially in speciﬁed intervals,
in lieu of video ﬁles.