3/22/24, 3:50 PM Remote Services: SSH, Sub-technique T1021.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/004/ 1/6Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:50 PM Remote Services: SSH, Sub-technique T1021.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/004/ 2/6Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Remote Services>SSH3/22/24, 3:50 PM Remote Services: SSH, Sub-technique T1021.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/004/ 3/6Remote Services: SSH
Adversaries may use Valid Accounts to log into remote machines using Secure Shell (SSH). The adversary may then perform actions as the
logged-on user.
SSH is a protocol that allows authorized users to open remote shells on other computers. Many Linux and macOS versions come with SSH
installed by default, although typically disabled until the user enables it. The SSH server can be conﬁgured to use standard password
authentication or public-private keypairs in lieu of or in addition to a password. In this authentication scenario, the user’s public key must be
in a special ﬁle on the computer running the server that lists which keypairs are allowed to login as that user.Other sub-techniques of Remote Services (8)
Version PermalinkID: T1021.004
Sub-technique of:  T1021

Tactic: Lateral Movement

Platforms: Linux, macOS

System Requirements: An SSH server is conﬁgured and running.
Version: 1.2
Created: 11 February 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 11 August 20233/22/24, 3:50 PM Remote Services: SSH, Sub-technique T1021.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/004/ 4/6Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0087 APT39 APT39 used secure shell (SSH) to move laterally among their targets.
G0098 BlackTech BlackTech has used Putty for remote access.
S0154 Cobalt Strike Cobalt Strike can SSH to a remote service.
S0363 Empire Empire contains modules for executing commands over SSH as well as in-memory VNC agent injection.
G1016 FIN13 FIN13 has remotely accessed compromised environments via secure shell (SSH) for lateral movement.
G0046 FIN7 FIN7 has used SSH to move laterally through victim environments.
G0117 Fox Kitten Fox Kitten has used the PuTTY and Plink tools for lateral movement.
G0036 GCMAN GCMAN uses Putty for lateral movement.
S0599 Kinsing Kinsing has used SSH for lateral movement.
G0032 Lazarus
GroupLazarus Group used SSH and the PuTTy PSCP utility to gain access to a restricted segment of a
compromised network.
G0065 Leviathan Leviathan used ssh for internal reconnaissance.
G0045 menuPass menuPass has used Putty Secure Copy Client (PSCP) to transfer data.
G0049 OilRig OilRig has used Putty to access compromised systems.
G0106 Rocke Rocke has spread its coinminer via SSH.
G0139 TeamTNT TeamTNT has used SSH to connect back to victim machines. TeamTNT has also used SSH to transfer
tools and payloads onto victim hosts and execute them.
G0088 TEMP.Veles TEMP.Veles has relied on encrypted SSH-based tunnels to transfer tools and for remote command/program
execution.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1042 Disable or Remove Feature or
ProgramDisable the SSH daemon on systems that do not require it. For macOS ensure Remote Login
is disabled under Sharing Preferences.
M1032 Multi-factor Authentication Require multi-factor authentication for SSH connections wherever possible, such as
password protected SSH keys.
M1018 User Account Management Limit which user accounts are allowed to login via SSH.[1]
[2]
[3][4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]
[12]
[13]
[14]
[15]
[16]
[17]
[18]
[19]3/22/24, 3:50 PM Remote Services: SSH, Sub-technique T1021.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/004/ 5/6Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0028 Logon Session Logon Session
CreationMonitor for user accounts logged into systems that may use Valid Accounts to log into
remote machines using Secure Shell (SSH). For example, on Linux systems SSH logon
activity can be found in the logs located in /var/log/auth.log or /var/log/secure
depending on the distro you are using.
For Linux systems, the Audit framework (auditd) can be used to monitor any writes to
SSH log ﬁles that store information about logged in accounts such as
/var/log/auth.log.
For macOS systems (10.12+), Uniﬁed Logs can be queried to show SSH daemon (sshd)
messages that include information on logged in accounts. The following command-line
can be used to query the last hour’s worth of uniﬁed logs in this manner: log show -
info --debug --predicate 'processImagePath CONTAINS "sshd" AND
eventMessage CONTAINS "Accepted"' --last 1h | grep sshd
DS0029 Network TraﬃcNetwork
Connection
CreationMonitor for newly constructed network connections (typically port 22) that may use
Valid Accounts to log into remote machines using Secure Shell (SSH). Use of SSH may
be legitimate depending on the environment and how it’s used. Other factors, such as
access patterns and activity that occurs after a remote login, may indicate suspicious or
malicious behavior with SSH.
Network Analysis Frameworks such as Zeek can be used to capture, decode, and alert
on network traﬃc. Accordingly, they can be used to look for the creation of SSH network
connections.
DS0009 Process Process
CreationMonitor for newly executed processes that may use Valid Accounts to log into remote
machines using Secure Shell (SSH). For example, on macOS systems log show --
predicate 'process = "sshd"' can be used to review incoming SSH connection
attempts for suspicious activity. The command log show --info --predicate
'process = "ssh" or eventMessage contains "ssh"' can be used to review
outgoing SSH connection activity.
For Linux systems, the Audit framework (auditd) can be used to monitor for the creation
of SSH related processes such as ssh.
For macOS systems (10.12+), the above command can be used to look through the
Uniﬁed Logs for SSH connection activity, though we also recommend including the "—
debug" parameter to ensure that all relevant data is returned: log show --info --
debug --predicate 'process = "ssh" or eventMessage contains "ssh"'[19]3/22/24, 3:50 PM Remote Services: SSH, Sub-technique T1021.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/004/ 6/6References
1. Hawley et al. (2019, January 29). APT39: An Iranian Cyber
Espionage Group Focused on Personal Information. Retrieved
February 19, 2019.
2. Threat Intelligence. (2020, September 29). Palmerworm:
Espionage Gang Targets the Media, Finance, and Other
Sectors. Retrieved March 25, 2022.
3. Cobalt Strike. (2017, December 8). Tactics, Techniques, and
Procedures. Retrieved December 20, 2017.
4. Strategic Cyber LLC. (2020, November 5). Cobalt Strike:
Advanced Threat Tactics for Penetration Testers. Retrieved
April 13, 2021.
5. Schroeder, W., Warner, J., Nelson, M. (n.d.). Github
PowerShellEmpire. Retrieved April 28, 2016.
. Ta, V., et al. (2022, August 8). FIN13: A Cybercriminal Threat
Actor Focused on Mexico. Retrieved February 9, 2023.
7. Loui, E. and Reynolds, J. (2021, August 30). CARBON SPIDER
Embraces Big Game Hunting, Part 1. Retrieved September 20,
2021.
. CISA. (2020, September 15). Iran-Based Threat Actor Exploits
VPN Vulnerabilities. Retrieved December 21, 2020.
9. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis Team. (2016,
February 8). APT-style bank robberies increase with Metel,
GCMAN and Carbanak 2.0 attacks. Retrieved April 20, 2016.
10. Singer, G. (2020, April 3). Threat Alert: Kinsing Malware
Attacks Targeting Container Environments. Retrieved April 1,
2021.11. Vyacheslav Kopeytsev and Seongsu Park. (2021, February
25). Lazarus targets defense industry with ThreatNeedle.
Retrieved October 27, 2021.
12. Plan, F., et al. (2019, March 4). APT40: Examining a China-
Nexus Espionage Actor. Retrieved March 18, 2019.
13. PwC and BAE Systems. (2017, April). Operation Cloud Hopper.
Retrieved April 5, 2017.
14. Unit42. (2016, May 1). Evasive Serpens Unit 42 Playbook
Viewer. Retrieved February 6, 2023.
15. Anomali Labs. (2019, March 15). Rocke Evolves Its Arsenal
With a New Malware Family Written in Golang. Retrieved April
24, 2019.
1. Fishbein, N. (2020, September 8). Attackers Abusing
Legitimate Cloud Monitoring Tools to Conduct Cyber Attacks.
Retrieved September 22, 2021.
17. Darin Smith. (2022, April 21). TeamTNT targeting AWS,
Alibaba. Retrieved August 4, 2022.
1. Miller, S, et al. (2019, April 10). TRITON Actor TTP Proﬁle,
Custom Attack Tools, Detections, and ATT&CK Mapping.
Retrieved April 16, 2019.
19. Sarah Edwards. (2020, April 30). Analysis of Apple Uniﬁed
Logs: Quarantine Edition [Entry 6] – Working From Home?
Remote Logins. Retrieved August 19, 2021.