3/22/24, 3:39 PM Event Triggered Execution: LC\_LOAD\_DYLIB Addition, Sub-technique T1546.006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1546/006/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:39 PM Event Triggered Execution: LC\_LOAD\_DYLIB Addition, Sub-technique T1546.006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1546/006/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Event Triggered Execution>LC\_LOAD\_DYLIB Addition3/22/24, 3:39 PM Event Triggered Execution: LC\_LOAD\_DYLIB Addition, Sub-technique T1546.006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1546/006/ 3/4Event Triggered Execution: LC\_LOAD\_DYLIB Addition
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1047 Audit Binaries can also be baselined for what dynamic libraries they require, and if an app requires a new
dynamic library that wasn\u2019t included as part of an update, it should be investigated.
M1045 Code Signing Enforce that all binaries be signed by the correct Apple Developer IDs.
M1038 Execution
PreventionAllow applications via known hashes.
Detection
ID Data SourceData Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that may establish persistence by executing
malicious content triggered by the execution of tainted binaries.
DS0022 File File Metadata Changes to binaries that do not line up with application updates or patches are also
extremely suspicious.
File Modiﬁcation Monitor ﬁle systems for changes to application binaries and invalid checksums/signatures.
DS0011 Module Module Load Monitor DLL/PE ﬁle events, speciﬁcally creation of these binary ﬁles as well as the loading
of DLLs into processes. Look for DLLs that are not recognized or not normally loaded into a
process.
DS0009 Process Process Creation Monitor processes for those that may be used to modify binary headers.Adversaries may establish persistence by executing malicious content triggered by the execution of tainted binaries. Mach-O binaries have a
series of headers that are used to perform certain operations when a binary is loaded. The LC\_LOAD\_DYLIB header in a Mach-O binary tells
macOS and OS X which dynamic libraries (dylibs) to load during execution time. These can be added ad-hoc to the compiled binary as long
as adjustments are made to the rest of the ﬁelds and dependencies. There are tools available to perform these changes.
Adversaries may modify Mach-O binary headers to load and execute malicious dylibs every time the binary is executed. Although any
changes will invalidate digital signatures on binaries because the binary is being modiﬁed, this can be remediated by simply removing the
LC\_CODE\_SIGNATURE command from the binary so that the signature isn’t checked at load time.Other sub-techniques of Event Triggered Execution (16)
[1]
[2]
Version PermalinkID: T1546.006
Sub-technique of:  T1546

Tactics: Privilege Escalation, Persistence

Platforms: macOS

Permissions Required: User
Version: 1.0
Created: 24 January 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 20 April 20223/22/24, 3:39 PM Event Triggered Execution: LC\_LOAD\_DYLIB Addition, Sub-technique T1546.006 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1546/006/ 4/4References
1. Patrick Wardle. (2015). Writing Bad @$$ Malware for OS X.
Retrieved July 10, 2017.2. Patrick Wardle. (2015). Malware Persistence on OS X
Yosemite. Retrieved July 10, 2017.