3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Owner/User Discovery, Technique T1033 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033/ 1/18Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Owner/User Discovery, Technique T1033 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033/ 2/18Home>Techniques>Enterprise>System Owner/User Discovery3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Owner/User Discovery, Technique T1033 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033/ 3/18System Owner/User Discovery
Adversaries may attempt to identify the primary user, currently logged in user, set of users that commonly uses a system, or whether a user is
actively using the system. They may do this, for example, by retrieving account usernames or by using OS Credential Dumping. The
information may be collected in a number of different ways using other Discovery techniques, because user and username details are
prevalent throughout a system and include running process ownership, ﬁle/directory ownership, session information, and system logs.
Adversaries may use the information from System Owner/User Discovery during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors,
including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts speciﬁc actions.
Various utilities and commands may acquire this information, including whoami . In macOS and Linux, the currently logged in user can be
identiﬁed with w and who. On macOS the dscl . list /Users | grep -v '\_' command can also be used to enumerate user accounts.
Environment variables, such as %USERNAME% and $USER , may also be used to access this information.
On network devices, Network Device CLI commands such as show users and show ssh can be used to display users currently logged into
the device.[1][2]
Version PermalinkID: T1033
Sub-techniques:  No sub-techniques

Tactic: Discovery

Platforms: Linux, Network, Windows, macOS
Contributors: Austin Clark, @c2defense
Version: 1.5
Created: 31 May 2017
Last Modiﬁed: 29 September 20233/22/24, 3:49 PM System Owner/User Discovery, Technique T1033 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033/ 4/18Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S1028 Action RAT Action RAT has the ability to collect the username from an infected host.
S0331 Agent Tesla Agent Tesla can collect the username from the victim’s machine.
S0092 Agent.btz Agent.btz obtains the victim username and saves it to a ﬁle.
S1025 Amadey Amadey has collected the user name from a compromised host using GetUserNameA .
G0073 APT19 APT19 used an HTTP malware variant and a Port 22 malware variant to collect the victim’s username.
G0022 APT3 An APT3 downloader uses the Windows command "cmd.exe" /C whoami to verify that it is running
with the elevated privileges of "System."
G0050 APT32 APT32 collected the victim's username and executed the whoami command on the victim's machine.
APT32 executed shellcode to collect the username on the victim's machine. 
G0067 APT37 APT37 identiﬁes the victim username.
G0082 APT38 APT38 has identiﬁed primary users, currently logged in users, sets of users that commonly use a
system, or inactive users.
G0087 APT39 APT39 used Remexi to collect usernames from the system.
G0096 APT41 APT41 used the WMIEXEC utility to execute whoami commands on remote machines.
S0456 Aria-body Aria-body has the ability to identify the username on a compromised host.
S1087 AsyncRAT AsyncRAT can check if the current user of a compromised system is an administrator. 
S1029 AuTo Stealer AuTo Stealer has the ability to collect the username from an infected host.
S0344 Azorult Azorult can collect the username from the victim’s machine.
S0414 BabyShark BabyShark has executed the whoami command.
S0093 Backdoor.Oldrea Backdoor.Oldrea collects the current username from the victim.
S1081 BADHATCH BADHATCH can obtain logged user information from a compromised machine and can execute the
command whoami.exe .
S0534 Bazar Bazar can identify the username of the infected user.
S0017 BISCUIT BISCUIT has a command to gather the username from the system.
S1068 BlackCat BlackCat can utilize net use commands to discover the user name on a compromised host.
S0521 BloodHound BloodHound can collect information on user sessions.
S0657 BLUELIGHT BLUELIGHT can collect the username on a compromised host.
S0486 Bonadan Bonadan has discovered the username of the user running the backdoor.
S0635 BoomBox BoomBox can enumerate the username on a compromised host.
S1039 Bumblebee Bumblebee has the ability to identify the user name.[3]
[4][5][6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11][12][13]
[14]
[15]
[16]
[17]
[18]
[19]
[3]
[20]
[21]
[22]
[23]
[24]
[25]
[26]
[27]
[28]
[29]
[30]
[31]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Owner/User Discovery, Technique T1033 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033/ 5/18ID Name Description
C0017 C0017 During C0017, APT41 used whoami to gather information from victim machines.
C0018 C0018 During C0018, the threat actors collected whoami information via PowerShell scripts.
S0351 Cannon Cannon can gather the username from the system.
S0348 Cardinal RAT Cardinal RAT can collect the username from a victim machine.
S0572 Caterpillar
WebShellCaterpillar WebShell can obtain a list of user accounts from a victim's machine.
S0631 Chaes Chaes has collected the username and UID from the infected machine.
G0114 Chimera Chimera has used the quser command to show currently logged on users.
S0667 Chrommme Chrommme can retrieve the username from a targeted system.
S0660 Clambling Clambling can identify the username on a compromised host.
S1024 CreepySnail CreepySnail can execute getUsername on compromised systems.
S0115 Crimson Crimson can identify the user on a targeted system.
S0498 Cryptoistic Cryptoistic can gather data on the user of a compromised host.
S0334 DarkComet DarkComet gathers the username from the victim’s machine.
S0673 DarkWatchman DarkWatchman has collected the username from a victim machine.
S0354 Denis Denis enumerates and collects the username from the victim’s machine.
S0021 Derusbi A Linux version of Derusbi checks if the victim user ID is anything other than zero (normally used for
root), and the malware will not execute if it does not have root privileges. Derusbi also gathers the
username of the victim.
S0659 Diavol Diavol can collect the username from a compromised host.
S1021 DnsSystem DnsSystem can use the Windows user name to create a unique identiﬁcation for infected users and
systems.
S0186 DownPaper DownPaper collects the victim username and sends it to the C2 server.
G0035 Dragonﬂy Dragonﬂy used the command query user on victim hosts.
S0694 DRATzarus DRATzarus can obtain a list of users from an infected machine.
S0024 Dyre Dyre has the ability to identify the users on a compromised host.
G1006 Earth Lusca Earth Lusca collected information on user accounts via the whoami command.
S0554 Egregor Egregor has used tools to gather information about users.
S0367 Emotet Emotet has enumerated all users connected to network shares.
S0363 Empire Empire can enumerate the username on targeted hosts.
S0091 Epic Epic collects the user name from the victim’s machine.
S0568 EVILNUM EVILNUM can obtain the username from the victim's machine.[32]
[33]
[34]
[35]
[36]
[37]
[38]
[39]
[40][41]
[42]
[43][44][45]
[46]
[47]
[48]
[49][13]
[50]
[51]
[52]
[53]
[54]
[55]
[56]
[57]
[58]
[59]
[60]
[61]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Owner/User Discovery, Technique T1033 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033/ 6/18ID Name Description
S0401 Exaramel for Linux Exaramel for Linux can run whoami to identify the system owner.
S0569 Explosive Explosive has collected the username from the infected host.
S0171 Felismus Felismus collects the current username and sends it to the C2 server.
S0267 FELIXROOT FELIXROOT collects the username from the victim’s machine.
G0051 FIN10 FIN10 has used Meterpreter to enumerate users on remote systems.
G0046 FIN7 FIN7 has used the command cmd.exe /C quser to collect user session information.
G0061 FIN8 FIN8 has executed the command quser to display the session details of a compromised machine.
S0696 Flagpro Flagpro has been used to run the whoami command on the system.
S0381 FlawedAmmyy FlawedAmmyy enumerates the current user during the initial infection.
C0001 Frankenstein During Frankenstein, the threat actors used Empire to enumerate hosts and gather username, machine
name, and administrative permissions information.
S1044 FunnyDream FunnyDream has the ability to gather user information from the targeted system using
whoami/upn&whoami/fqdn&whoami/logonid&whoami/all .
G0093 GALLIUM GALLIUM used whoami and query user to obtain information about the victim user.
G0047 Gamaredon Group A Gamaredon Group ﬁle stealer can gather the victim's username to send to a C2 server.
S0168 Gazer Gazer obtains the current user's security identiﬁer.
S0666 Gelsemium Gelsemium has the ability to distinguish between a standard user and an administrator on a
compromised host.
S0460 Get2 Get2 has the ability to identify the current username of an infected host.
S0249 Gold Dragon Gold Dragon collects the endpoint victim's username and uses it as a basis for downloading additional
components from the C2 server.
S0477 Goopy Goopy has the ability to enumerate the infected system's user name.
S0531 Grandoreiro Grandoreiro can collect the username from the victim's machine.
S0237 GravityRAT GravityRAT collects the victim username along with other account information (account type,
description, full name, SID and status).
S0632 GrimAgent GrimAgent can identify the user id on a target machine.
G0125 HAFNIUM HAFNIUM has used whoami to gather user information.
S0214 HAPPYWORK can collect the victim user name.
S0391 HAWKBALL HAWKBALL can collect the user name of the system.
G1001 HEXANE HEXANE has run whoami on compromised machines to identify the current user.
S0431 HotCroissant HotCroissant has the ability to collect the username on the infected host.
S0260 InvisiMole InvisiMole lists local users and session information.[62]
[63]
[64]
[65][66]
[67]
[68]
[69]
[70]
[71][72]
[59]
[73]
[74]
[75]
[76]
[39]
[77]
[78]
[13]
[79]
[80]
[81]
[82]
[83]
[84]
[85]
[86]
[87]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Owner/User Discovery, Technique T1033 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033/ 7/18ID Name Description
S0015 Ixeshe Ixeshe collects the username from the victim’s machine.
S0201 JPIN JPIN can obtain the victim user name.
S0265 Kazuar Kazuar gathers information on users.
G0004 Ke3chang Ke3chang has used implants capable of collecting the signed-in username.
S0250 Koadic Koadic can identify logged in users across the domain and views user sessions.
S0162 Komplex The OsInfo function in Komplex collects the current running username.
S0356 KONNI KONNI can collect the username from the victim’s machine.
S1075 KOPILUWAK KOPILUWAK can conduct basic network reconnaissance on the victim machine with whoami , to get
user details.
S0236 Kwampirs Kwampirs collects registered owner details by using the commands systeminfo and net config
workstation .
G0032 Lazarus Group Various Lazarus Group malware enumerates logged-on users.
S0362 Linux Rabbit Linux Rabbit opens a socket on port 22 and if it receives a response it attempts to obtain the machine's
hostname and Top-Level Domain. 
S0513 LiteDuke LiteDuke can enumerate the account name on a targeted system.
S0680 LitePower LitePower can determine if the current user has admin privileges.
S0681 Lizar Lizar can collect the username from the system.
S0447 Lokibot Lokibot has the ability to discover the username on the infected host.
S0532 Lucifer Lucifer has the ability to identify the username on a compromised host.
G1014 LuminousMoth LuminousMoth has used a malicious DLL to collect the username from compromised hosts.
S1016 MacMa MacMa can collect the username from the compromised machine.
S1060 Mafalda Mafalda can collect the username from a compromised host.
G0059 Magic Hound Magic Hound malware has obtained the victim username and sent it to the C2 server.
S0652 MarkiRAT MarkiRAT can retrieve the victim’s username.
S0459 MechaFlounder MechaFlounder has the ability to identify the username and hostname on a compromised host.
S1059 metaMain metaMain can collect the username from a compromised host.
S0455 Metamorfo Metamorfo has collected the username from the victim's machine.
S0339 Micropsia Micropsia collects the username from the victim’s machine.
S1015 Milan Milan can identify users registered to a targeted machine.
S0280 MirageFox MirageFox can gather the username from the victim’s machine.
S0084 Mis-Type Mis-Type runs tests to determine the privilege level of the compromised user.[88]
[89]
[90]
[91]
[92][93]
[94]
[95]
[96]
[97]
[98][99][100][101][102][46][103]
[104]
[105]
[106]
[107]
[108]
[109]
[110]
[111]
[112]
[113][114][115]
[116]
[117]
[112]
[118]
[119]
[120]
[121]
[122]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Owner/User Discovery, Technique T1033 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033/ 8/18ID Name Description
S0149 MoonWind MoonWind obtains the victim username.
S0284 More\_eggs More\_eggs has the capability to gather the username from the victim's machine.
S0256 Mosquito Mosquito runs whoami on the victim’s machine.
G0069 MuddyWater MuddyWater has used malware that can collect the victim’s username.
S0228 NanHaiShu NanHaiShu collects the username from the victim.
S0590 NBTscan NBTscan can list active users on the system.
S0272 NDiskMonitor NDiskMonitor obtains the victim username and encrypts the information to send over its C2 channel.
S0691 Neoichor Neoichor can collect the user name from a victim's machine.
C0002 Night Dragon During Night Dragon, threat actors used password cracking and pass-the-hash tools to discover
usernames and passwords.
S0385 njRAT njRAT enumerates the current user during the initial infection.
S0353 NOKKI NOKKI can collect the username from the victim’s machine.
S0644 ObliqueRAT ObliqueRAT can check for blocklisted usernames on infected endpoints.
S0340 Octopus Octopus can collect the username from the victim’s machine.
G0049 OilRig OilRig has run whoami on a victim.
S0439 Okrum Okrum can collect the victim username.
C0012 Operation
CuckooBeesDuring Operation CuckooBees, the threat actors used the query user and whoami commands as part
of their advanced reconnaissance.
C0014 Operation Wocao During Operation Wocao, threat actors enumerated sessions and users on a remote host, and identiﬁed
privileged users logged into a targeted system.
G0040 Patchwork Patchwork collected the victim username and whether it was running as admin, then sent the
information to its C2 server.
S0428 PoetRAT PoetRAT sent username, computer name, and the previously generated UUID in reply to a "who"
command from C2.
S0139 PowerDuke PowerDuke has commands to get the current user's name and SID.
S0441 PowerShower PowerShower has the ability to identify the current user on the infected host.
S0223 POWERSTATS POWERSTATS has the ability to identify the username on the compromised host.
S0184 POWRUNER POWRUNER may collect information about the currently logged in user by running whoami on a victim.
S0113 Prikormka A module in Prikormka collects information from the victim about the current user name.
S0192 Pupy Pupy can enumerate local information for Linux hosts and ﬁnd currently logged on users for Windows
hosts.[123]
[124][125]
[126]
[127][128]
[129]
[130][131]
[132]
[91]
[133]
[134]
[135]
[136]
[137]
[138][139][140]
[141]
[142]
[143]
[144][132]
[145]
[146]
[147]
[148]
[149]
[150]
[151]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Owner/User Discovery, Technique T1033 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033/ 9/18ID Name Description
S1032 PyDCrypt PyDCrypt has probed victim machines with whoami and has collected the username from the machine.
S0650 QakBot QakBot can identify the user name on a compromised system.
S0269 QUADAGENT QUADAGENT gathers the victim username.
S0262 QuasarRAT QuasarRAT can enumerate the username and account type.
S0241 RATANKBA RATANKBA runs the whoami and query user commands.
S0662 RCSession RCSession can gather system owner information, including user and administrator privileges.
S0172 Reaver Reaver collects the victim's username.
S0153 RedLeaves RedLeaves can obtain information about the logged on user both locally and for Remote Desktop
sessions.
S0125 Remsec Remsec can obtain information about the current user.
S0379 Revenge RAT Revenge RAT gathers the username from the system.
S0258 RGDoor RGDoor executes the whoami on the victim’s machine.
S0433 Rifdoor Rifdoor has the ability to identify the username on the compromised host.
S0448 Rising Sun Rising Sun can detect the username of the infected host.
S0270 RogueRobin RogueRobin collects the victim’s username and whether that user is an admin.
S0240 ROKRAT ROKRAT can collect the username from a compromised host.
S0148 RTM RTM can obtain the victim username and permissions.
S0085 S-Type S-Type has run tests to determine the privilege level of the compromised user.
S1018 Saint Bot Saint Bot can collect the username from a compromised host.
G0034 Sandworm Team Sandworm Team has collected the username from a compromised host.
S0461 SDBbot SDBbot has the ability to identify the user on a compromised host.
S0382 ServHelper ServHelper will attempt to enumerate the username of the victim.
S0596 ShadowPad ShadowPad has collected the username of the victim system.
S0450 SHARPSTATS SHARPSTATS has the ability to identify the username on the compromised host.
S0610 SideTwist SideTwist can collect the username on a targeted system.
G0121 Sidewinder Sidewinder has used tools to identify the user of a compromised host.
S0692 SILENTTRINITY SILENTTRINITY can gather a list of logged on users.
S0533 SLOTHFULMEDIA SLOTHFULMEDIA has collected the username from a victim machine.
S1035 Small Sieve Small Sieve can obtain the id of a logged in user.
S0649 SMOKEDHAM SMOKEDHAM has used whoami commands to identify system owners.[152]
[153][154]
[155]
[156]
[157]
[158]
[159]
[160]
[161]
[162]
[163]
[86]
[164]
[165]
[166]
[167]
[122]
[168]
[169]
[77]
[170]
[171]
[148]
[140]
[172]
[173]
[174]
[175]
[176]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Owner/User Discovery, Technique T1033 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033/ 10/18ID Name Description
S0627 SodaMaster SodaMaster can identify the username on a compromised host.
S0615 SombRAT SombRAT can execute getinfo to identify the username on a compromised host.
S0543 Spark Spark has run the whoami command and has a built-in command to identify the user logged in.
S0374 SpeakUp SpeakUp uses the whoami command. 
S1030 Squirrelwaﬄe Squirrelwaﬄe can collect the user name from a compromised host.
S0058 SslMM SslMM sends the logged-on username to its hard-coded C2.
S1037 STARWHALE STARWHALE can gather the username from an infected host.
G0038 Stealth Falcon Stealth Falcon malware gathers the registered user and primary owner name via WMI.
S1034 StrifeWater StrifeWater can collect the user name from the victim's machine.
S0559 SUNBURST SUNBURST collected the username from a compromised host.
S1064 SVCReady SVCReady can collect the username from an infected host.
S0242 SynAck SynAck gathers user names from infected hosts.
S0060 Sys10 Sys10 collects the account name of the logged-in user and sends it to the C2.
S0663 SysUpdate SysUpdate can collect the username from a compromised host.
S0098 T9000 T9000 gathers and beacons the username of the logged in account during installation. It will also
gather the username of running processes to determine if it is running as SYSTEM.
G0027 Threat Group-3390 Threat Group-3390 has used whoami to collect system user information.
S0266 TrickBot TrickBot can identify the user and groups the user belongs to on a compromised host.
S0094 Trojan.Karagany Trojan.Karagany can gather information about the user on a compromised host.
G0081 Tropic Trooper Tropic Trooper used letmein to scan for saved usernames on the target system.
S0647 Turian Turian can retrieve usernames.
S0130 Unknown Logger Unknown Logger can obtain information about the victim usernames.
S0275 UPPERCUT UPPERCUT has the capability to collect the current logged on user’s username from a machine.
S0476 Valak Valak can gather information regarding the user.
S0257 VERMIN VERMIN gathers the username from the victim’s machine.
G1017 Volt Typhoon Volt Typhoon has executed the PowerShell command Get-EventLog security -instanceid 4624 to
identify associated user and computer account names.
S0515 WellMail WellMail can identify the current username on the victim system.
S0514 WellMess WellMess can collect the username on the victim machine to send to C2.
S0155 WINDSHIELD WINDSHIELD can gather the victim user name.
G0112 Windshift Windshift has used malware to identify the username on a compromised host.[177]
[178][179]
[180]
[181]
[182]
[183]
[184][185]
[186]
[187]
[188][189]
[190]
[191]
[183]
[192]
[193]
[40]
[194]
[195]
[196]
[197]
[198]
[199]
[200]
[201]
[202][203]
[204]
[205]
[206]
[207]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Owner/User Discovery, Technique T1033 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033/ 11/18ID Name Description
S0219 WINERACK WINERACK can gather information on the victim username.
S0059 WinMM WinMM uses NetUser-GetInfo to identify that it is running under an "Admin" account on the local
system.
G0102 Wizard Spider Wizard Spider has used "whoami" to identify the local user and their privileges.
S1065 Woody RAT Woody RAT can retrieve a list of user accounts and usernames from an infected machine.
S0161 XAgentOSX XAgentOSX contains the getInfoOSX function to return the OS X version as well as the current user.
S0248 yty yty collects the victim’s username.
S0251 Zebrocy Zebrocy gets the username from the system.
G0128 ZIRCONIUM ZIRCONIUM has used a tool to capture the username on a compromised host in order to register it with
C2.
S0350 zwShell zwShell can obtain the name of the logged-in user on the victim.
S0412 ZxShell ZxShell can collect the owner and organization information from the target workstation.
S1013 ZxxZ ZxxZ can collect the username from a compromised host.
Mitigations
This type of attack technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on the abuse of system features.[83]
[183]
[208]
[209]
[210]
[211]
[212][213]
[214]
[133]
[215]
[216]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Owner/User Discovery, Technique T1033 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033/ 12/18Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0026 Active Directory Active Directory
Object AccessMonitor domain controller logs for replication requests and other unscheduled activity
possibly associated with DCSync. Note: Domain controllers may not log
replication requests originating from the default domain controller account. .
Monitor for replication requests from IPs not associated with known domain
controllers. 
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that may attempt to dump credentials to
obtain account login and credential material, normally in the form of a hash or a clear
text password, from the operating system and software. Look for command-lines that
invoke AuditD or the Security Accounts Manager (SAM). Remote access tools may
contain built-in features or incorporate existing tools like Mimikatz. PowerShell scripts
also exist that contain credential dumping functionality, such as PowerSploit's Invoke-
Mimikatz module, which may require additional logging features to be conﬁgured
in the operating system to collect necessary information for analysis.
Note: Event ID 4104 (from the Microsoft-Windows-Powershell/Operational log)
captures Powershell script blocks, which can be analyzed and used to detect on abuse
of CMSTP.
DS0022 File File Access Monitor for hash dumpers opening the Security Accounts Manager (SAM) on the local
ﬁle system (%SystemRoot%/system32/config/SAM ). Some hash dumpers will open
the local ﬁle system as a device and parse to the SAM table to avoid ﬁle access
defenses. Others will make an in-memory copy of the SAM table before reading
hashes. Detection of compromised Valid Accounts in-use by adversaries may help as
well.
DS0029 Network Traﬃc Network Traﬃc
ContentMonitor and analyze traﬃc patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s)
that do not follow the expected protocol standards and traﬃc ﬂows (e.g extraneous
packets that do not belong to established ﬂows, gratuitous or anomalous traﬃc
patterns, anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process
monitoring and command line to detect anomalous processes execution and
command line arguments associated to traﬃc patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use
of ﬁles that do not normally initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).
Note: Network Analysis frameworks such as Zeek can be used to capture, decode, and
alert on network protocols.
Network Traﬃc
FlowMonitor network data for uncommon data ﬂows. Processes utilizing the network that
do not normally have network communication or have never been seen before are
suspicious.
DS0009 Process OS API
ExecutionMonitor for API calls that may attempt to dump credentials to obtain account login
and credential material, normally in the form of a hash or a clear text password, from
the operating system and software.[217][218][219]
[220]
[221]
[222]
[223]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Owner/User Discovery, Technique T1033 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033/ 13/18ID Data Source Data Component Detects
Process Access Monitor for unexpected processes interacting with lsass.exe. Common credential
dumpers such as Mimikatz access the LSA Subsystem Service (LSASS) process by
opening the process, locating the LSA secrets key, and decrypting the sections in
memory where credential details are stored. Credential dumpers may also use
methods for reﬂective Process Injection to reduce potential indicators of malicious
activity.
Linux
To obtain the passwords and hashes stored in memory, processes must open a maps
ﬁle in the /proc ﬁlesystem for the process being analyzed. This ﬁle is stored under the
path /proc//maps , where the  directory is the unique pid of the program
being interrogated for such authentication data. The AuditD monitoring tool, which
ships stock in many Linux distributions, can be used to watch for hostile processes
opening this ﬁle in the proc ﬁle system, alerting on the pid, process name, and
arguments of such programs.
Process
CreationMonitor for newly executed processes that may be indicative of credential dumping.
On Windows 8.1 and Windows Server 2012 R2, monitor Windows Logs for LSASS.exe
creation to verify that LSASS started as a protected process.
Note: Event IDs are for Sysmon (Event ID 1 - process create) and Windows Security
Log (Event ID 4688 - a new process has been created). The Analytic looks for any
instances of at being created, therefore implying the querying or creation of tasks. If
this tools is commonly used in your environment (e.g., by system administrators) this
may lead to false positives and this analytic will therefore require tuning.
Analytic 1 - Suspicious Process Execution
processes = filter processes where ( (event\_id == "1" OR event\_id ==
"4688") AND exe == "at.exe")
DS0024 Windows RegistryWindows
Registry Key
AccessMonitor for the SAM registry key being accessed that may attempt to dump
credentials to obtain account login and credential material, normally in the form of a
hash or a clear text password, from the operating system and software.[224]3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Owner/User Discovery, Technique T1033 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033/ 14/18References
1. Cisco. (2023, March 7). Cisco IOS Security Command
Reference: Commands S to Z . Retrieved July 13, 2022.
2. US-CERT. (2018, April 20). Russian State-Sponsored Cyber
Actors Targeting Network Infrastructure Devices. Retrieved
October 19, 2020.
3. Threat Intelligence Team. (2021, December 2). SideCopy APT:
Connecting lures victims, payloads to infrastructure. Retrieved
June 13, 2022.
4. The DigiTrust Group. (2017, January 12). The Rise of Agent
Tesla. Retrieved November 5, 2018.
5. Zhang, X. (2018, April 05). Analysis of New Agent Tesla
Spyware Variant. Retrieved November 5, 2018.
. Jazi, H. (2020, April 16). New AgentTesla variant steals WiFi
credentials. Retrieved May 19, 2020.
7. Shevchenko, S.. (2008, November 30). Agent.btz - A Threat
That Hit Pentagon. Retrieved April 8, 2016.
. Kasuya, M. (2020, January 8). Threat Spotlight: Amadey Bot
Targets Non-Russian Users. Retrieved July 14, 2022.
9. Grunzweig, J., Lee, B. (2016, January 22). New Attacks Linked
to C0d0so0 Group. Retrieved August 2, 2018.
10. Moran, N., et al. (2014, November 21). Operation Double Tap.
Retrieved January 14, 2016.
11. Henderson, S., et al. (2020, April 22). Vietnamese Threat
Actors APT32 Targeting Wuhan Government and Chinese
Ministry of Emergency Management in Latest Example of
COVID-19 Related Espionage. Retrieved April 28, 2020.
12. Foltýn, T. (2018, March 13). OceanLotus ships new backdoor
using old tricks. Retrieved May 22, 2018.
13. Dahan, A. (2017). Operation Cobalt Kitty. Retrieved December
27, 2018.
14. Mercer, W., Rascagneres, P. (2018, January 16). Korea In The
Crosshairs. Retrieved May 21, 2018.
15. DHS/CISA. (2020, August 26). FASTCash 2.0: North Korea's
BeagleBoyz Robbing Banks. Retrieved September 29, 2021.
1. Symantec Security Response. (2015, December 7). Iran-based
attackers use back door threats to spy on Middle Eastern
targets. Retrieved April 17, 2019.
17. Fraser, N., et al. (2019, August 7). Double DragonAPT41, a
dual espionage and cyber crime operation APT41. Retrieved
September 23, 2019.
1. CheckPoint. (2020, May 7). Naikon APT: Cyber Espionage
Reloaded. Retrieved May 26, 2020.
19. Jornet, A. (2021, December 23). Snip3, an investigation into
malware. Retrieved September 19, 2023.
20. Yan, T., et al. (2018, November 21). New Wine in Old Bottle:
New Azorult Variant Found in FindMyName Campaign using
Fallout Exploit Kit. Retrieved November 29, 2018.
21. Unit 42. (2019, February 22). New BabyShark Malware Targets
U.S. National Security Think Tanks. Retrieved October 7, 2019.
22. Symantec Security Response. (2014, June 30). Dragonﬂy:
Cyberespionage Attacks Against Energy Suppliers. Retrieved
April 8, 2016.
23. Vrabie, V., et al. (2021, March 10). FIN8 Returns with Improved
BADHATCH Toolkit. Retrieved September 8, 2021.
24. Pantazopoulos, N. (2020, June 2). In-depth analysis of the
new Team9 malware family. Retrieved December 1, 2020.
25. Mandiant. (n.d.). Appendix C (Digital) - The Malware Arsenal.
Retrieved July 18, 2016.113. Lee, B. and Falcone, R. (2017, February 15). Magic Hound
Campaign Attacks Saudi Targets. Retrieved December 27,
2017.
114. DFIR Report. (2022, March 21). APT35 Automates Initial
Access Using ProxyShell. Retrieved May 25, 2022.
115. DFIR Report. (2021, November 15). Exchange Exploit Leads to
Domain Wide Ransomware. Retrieved January 5, 2023.
11. GReAT. (2021, June 16). Ferocious Kitten: 6 Years of Covert
Surveillance in Iran. Retrieved September 22, 2021.
117. Falcone, R. (2019, March 4). New Python-Based Payload
MechaFlounder Used by Chafer. Retrieved May 27, 2020.
11. ESET Research. (2019, October 3). Casbaneiro: peculiarities of
this banking Trojan that affects Brazil and Mexico. Retrieved
September 23, 2021.
119. Rascagneres, P., Mercer, W. (2017, June 19). Delphi Used To
Score Against Palestine. Retrieved November 13, 2018.
120. ClearSky Cyber Security . (2021, August). New Iranian
Espionage Campaign By “Siamesekitten” - Lyceum. Retrieved
June 6, 2022.
121. Rosenberg, J. (2018, June 14). MirageFox: APT15 Resurfaces
With New Tools Based On Old Ones. Retrieved September 21,
2018.
122. Gross, J. (2016, February 23). Operation Dust Storm. Retrieved
December 22, 2021.
123. Miller-Osborn, J. and Grunzweig, J.. (2017, March 30).
Trochilus and New MoonWind RATs Used In Attack Against
Thai Organizations. Retrieved March 30, 2017.
124. Svajcer, V. (2018, July 31). Multiple Cobalt Personality
Disorder. Retrieved September 5, 2018.
125. Villadsen, O.. (2019, August 29). More\_eggs, Anyone? Threat
Actor ITG08 Strikes Again. Retrieved September 16, 2019.
12. ESET, et al. (2018, January). Diplomats in Eastern Europe
bitten by a Turla mosquito. Retrieved July 3, 2018.
127. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis Team. (2018,
October 10). MuddyWater expands operations. Retrieved
November 2, 2018.
12. Peretz, A. and Theck, E. (2021, March 5). Earth Vetala –
MuddyWater Continues to Target Organizations in the Middle
East. Retrieved March 18, 2021.
129. F-Secure Labs. (2016, July). NANHAISHU RATing the South
China Sea. Retrieved July 6, 2018.
130. Bezroutchko, A. (2019, November 19). NBTscan man page.
Retrieved March 17, 2021.
131. SecTools. (2003, June 11). NBTscan. Retrieved March 17,
2021.
132. Lunghi, D., et al. (2017, December). Untangling the Patchwork
Cyberespionage Group. Retrieved July 10, 2018.
133. McAfee® Foundstone® Professional Services and McAfee
Labs™. (2011, February 10). Global Energy Cyberattacks:
“Night Dragon”. Retrieved February 19, 2018.
134. Fidelis Cybersecurity. (2013, June 28). Fidelis Threat Advisory
#1009: "njRAT" Uncovered. Retrieved June 4, 2019.
135. Grunzweig, J., Lee, B. (2018, September 27). New KONNI
Malware attacking Eurasia and Southeast Asia. Retrieved
November 5, 2018.
13. Malhotra, A. (2021, March 2). ObliqueRAT returns with new
campaign using hijacked websites. Retrieved September 2,
2021.3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Owner/User Discovery, Technique T1033 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033/ 15/182. Microsoft Defender Threat Intelligence. (2022, June 13). The
many lives of BlackCat ransomware. Retrieved December 20,
2022.
27. Red Team Labs. (2018, April 24). Hidden Administrative
Accounts: BloodHound to the Rescue. Retrieved October 28,
2020.
2. Cash, D., Grunzweig, J., Meltzer, M., Adair, S., Lancaster, T.
(2021, August 17). North Korean APT InkySquid Infects
Victims Using Browser Exploits. Retrieved September 30,
2021.
29. Dumont, R., M.Léveillé, M., Porcher, H. (2018, December 1).
THE DARK SIDE OF THE FORSSHE A landscape of OpenSSH
backdoors. Retrieved July 16, 2020.
30. MSTIC. (2021, May 28). Breaking down NOBELIUM’s latest
early-stage toolset. Retrieved August 4, 2021.
31. Stolyarov, V. (2022, March 17). Exposing initial access broker
with ties to Conti. Retrieved August 18, 2022.
32. Rufus Brown, Van Ta, Douglas Bienstock, Geoff Ackerman,
John Wolfram. (2022, March 8). Does This Look Infected? A
Summary of APT41 Targeting U.S. State Governments.
Retrieved July 8, 2022.
33. Costa, F. (2022, May 1). RaaS AvosLocker Incident Response
Analysis. Retrieved January 11, 2023.
34. Falcone, R., Lee, B. (2018, November 20). Sofacy Continues
Global Attacks and Wheels Out New ‘Cannon’ Trojan. Retrieved
November 26, 2018.
35. Grunzweig, J.. (2017, April 20). Cardinal RAT Active for Over
Two Years. Retrieved December 8, 2018.
3. ClearSky Cyber Security. (2021, January). “Lebanese Cedar”
APT Global Lebanese Espionage Campaign Leveraging Web
Servers. Retrieved February 10, 2021.
37. Salem, E. (2020, November 17). CHAES: Novel Malware
Targeting Latin American E-Commerce. Retrieved June 30,
2021.
3. Jansen, W . (2021, January 12). Abusing cloud services to ﬂy
under the radar. Retrieved January 19, 2021.
39. Dupuy, T. and Faou, M. (2021, June). Gelsemium. Retrieved
November 30, 2021.
40. Lunghi, D. et al. (2020, February). Uncovering DRBControl.
Retrieved November 12, 2021.
41. Chen, T. and Chen, Z. (2020, February 17). CLAMBLING - A
New Backdoor Base On Dropbox. Retrieved November 12,
2021.
42. Microsoft. (2022, June 2). Exposing POLONIUM activity and
infrastructure targeting Israeli organizations. Retrieved July 1,
2022.
43. Huss, D. (2016, March 1). Operation Transparent Tribe.
Retrieved June 8, 2016.
44. Dedola, G. (2020, August 20). Transparent Tribe: Evolution
analysis, part 1. Retrieved September 2, 2021.
45. N. Baisini. (2022, July 13). Transparent Tribe begins targeting
education sector in latest campaign. Retrieved September 22,
2022.
4. Stokes, P. (2020, July 27). Four Distinct Families of Lazarus
Malware Target Apple’s macOS Platform. Retrieved August 7,
2020.
47. TrendMicro. (2014, September 03). DARKCOMET. Retrieved
November 6, 2018.
4. Smith, S., Stafford, M. (2021, December 14). DarkWatchman:
A new evolution in ﬁleless techniques. Retrieved January 10,
2022.137. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis Team. (2018,
October 15). Octopus-infested seas of Central Asia. Retrieved
November 14, 2018.
13. Falcone, R. and Lee, B.. (2016, May 26). The OilRig Campaign:
Attacks on Saudi Arabian Organizations Deliver Helminth
Backdoor. Retrieved May 3, 2017.
139. Grunzweig, J. and Falcone, R.. (2016, October 4). OilRig
Malware Campaign Updates Toolset and Expands Targets.
Retrieved May 3, 2017.
140. Check Point. (2021, April 8). Iran’s APT34 Returns with an
Updated Arsenal. Retrieved May 5, 2021.
141. Hromcova, Z. (2019, July). OKRUM AND KETRICAN: AN
OVERVIEW OF RECENT KE3CHANG GROUP ACTIVITY.
Retrieved May 6, 2020.
142. Cybereason Nocturnus. (2022, May 4). Operation CuckooBees:
Deep-Dive into Stealthy Winnti Techniques. Retrieved
September 22, 2022.
143. Dantzig, M. v., Schamper, E. (2019, December 19). Operation
Wocao: Shining a light on one of China’s hidden hacking
groups. Retrieved October 8, 2020.
144. Cymmetria. (2016). Unveiling Patchwork - The Copy-Paste
APT. Retrieved August 3, 2016.
145. Mercer, W, et al. (2020, April 16). PoetRAT: Python RAT uses
COVID-19 lures to target Azerbaijan public and private sectors.
Retrieved April 27, 2020.
14. Adair, S.. (2016, November 9). PowerDuke: Widespread Post-
Election Spear Phishing Campaigns Targeting Think Tanks
and NGOs. Retrieved January 11, 2017.
147. GReAT. (2019, August 12). Recent Cloud Atlas activity.
Retrieved May 8, 2020.
14. Lunghi, D. and Horejsi, J.. (2019, June 10). MuddyWater
Resurfaces, Uses Multi-Stage Backdoor POWERSTATS V3 and
New Post-Exploitation Tools. Retrieved May 14, 2020.
149. Sardiwal, M, et al. (2017, December 7). New Targeted Attack in
the Middle East by APT34, a Suspected Iranian Threat Group,
Using CVE-2017-11882 Exploit. Retrieved December 20, 2017.
150. Cherepanov, A.. (2016, May 17). Operation Groundbait:
Analysis of a surveillance toolkit. Retrieved May 18, 2016.
151. Nicolas Verdier. (n.d.). Retrieved January 29, 2018.
152. Checkpoint Research. (2021, November 15). Uncovering
MosesStaff techniques: Ideology over Money. Retrieved
August 11, 2022.
153. Kuzmenko, A. et al. (2021, September 2). QakBot technical
analysis. Retrieved September 27, 2021.
154. Keneﬁck, I. et al. (2022, October 12). Black Basta Ransomware
Gang Inﬁltrates Networks via QAKBOT, Brute Ratel, and Cobalt
Strike. Retrieved February 6, 2023.
155. Lee, B., Falcone, R. (2018, July 25). OilRig Targets Technology
Service Provider and Government Agency with QUADAGENT.
Retrieved August 9, 2018.
15. CISA. (2018, December 18). Analysis Report (AR18-352A)
Quasar Open-Source Remote Administration Tool. Retrieved
August 1, 2022.
157. Trend Micro. (2017, February 27). RATANKBA: Delving into
Large-scale Watering Holes against Enterprises. Retrieved May
22, 2018.
15. Global Threat Center, Intelligence Team. (2020, December).
APT27 Turns to Ransomware. Retrieved November 12, 2021.
159. Grunzweig, J. and Miller-Osborn, J. (2017, November 10). New
Malware with Ties to SunOrcal Discovered. Retrieved
November 16, 2017.
10. PwC and BAE Systems. (2017, April). Operation Cloud Hopper:
Technical Annex. Retrieved April 13, 2017.3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Owner/User Discovery, Technique T1033 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033/ 16/1849. Shulmin, A., Yunakovsky, S. (2017, April 28). Use of DNS
Tunneling for C&C Communications. Retrieved November 5,
2018.
50. Fidelis Cybersecurity. (2016, February 29). The Turbo
Campaign, Featuring Derusbi for 64-bit Linux. Retrieved March
2, 2016.
51. Neeamni, D., Rubinfeld, A.. (2021, July 1). Diavol - A New
Ransomware Used By Wizard Spider?. Retrieved November 12,
2021.
52. Shivtarkar, N. and Kumar, A. (2022, June 9). Lyceum .NET DNS
Backdoor. Retrieved June 23, 2022.
53. ClearSky Cyber Security. (2017, December). Charming Kitten.
Retrieved December 27, 2017.
54. US-CERT. (2018, March 16). Alert (TA18-074A): Russian
Government Cyber Activity Targeting Energy and Other Critical
Infrastructure Sectors. Retrieved June 6, 2018.
55. ClearSky Research Team. (2020, August 13). Operation
'Dream Job' Widespread North Korean Espionage Campaign.
Retrieved December 20, 2021.
5. hasherezade. (2015, November 4). A Technical Look At
Dyreza. Retrieved June 15, 2020.
57. Chen, J., et al. (2022). Delving Deep: An Analysis of Earth
Lusca’s Operations. Retrieved July 1, 2022.
5. Bichet, J. (2020, November 12). Egregor – Prolock: Fraternal
Twins ?. Retrieved January 6, 2021.
59. Adamitis, D. et al. (2019, June 4). It's alive: Threat actors
cobble together open-source pieces into monstrous
Frankenstein campaign. Retrieved May 11, 2020.
0. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis Team. (2014,
August 06). The Epic Turla Operation: Solving some of the
mysteries of Snake/Uroboros. Retrieved November 7, 2018.
1. Adamitis, D. (2020, May 6). Phantom in the Command Shell.
Retrieved December 22, 2021.
2. ANSSI. (2021, January 27). SANDWORM INTRUSION SET
CAMPAIGN TARGETING CENTREON SYSTEMS. Retrieved
March 30, 2021.
3. Threat Intelligence and Research. (2015, March 30). VOLATILE
CEDAR. Retrieved February 8, 2021.
4. Somerville, L. and Toro, A. (2017, March 30). Playing Cat &
Mouse: Introducing the Felismus Malware. Retrieved
November 16, 2017.
5. Patil, S. (2018, June 26). Microsoft Oﬃce Vulnerabilities Used
to Distribute FELIXROOT Backdoor in Recent Campaign.
Retrieved July 31, 2018.
. Cherepanov, A. (2018, October). GREYENERGY A successor to
BlackEnergy. Retrieved November 15, 2018.
7. FireEye iSIGHT Intelligence. (2017, June 16). FIN10: Anatomy
of a Cyber Extortion Operation. Retrieved June 25, 2017.
. Abdo, B., et al. (2022, April 4). FIN7 Power Hour: Adversary
Archaeology and the Evolution of FIN7. Retrieved April 5,
2022.
9. Symantec Threat Hunter Team. (2023, July 18). FIN8 Uses
Revamped Sardonic Backdoor to Deliver Noberus
Ransomware. Retrieved August 9, 2023.
70. Hada, H. (2021, December 28). Flagpro The new malware
used by BlackTech. Retrieved March 25, 2022.
71. Proofpoint Staff. (2018, March 7). Leaked Ammyy Admin
Source Code Turned into Malware. Retrieved May 28, 2019.
72. Financial Security Institute. (2020, February 28). Proﬁling of
TA505 Threat Group That Continues to Attack the Financial
Sector. Retrieved July 14, 2022.11. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis Team. (2016,
August 9). The ProjectSauron APT. Technical Analysis.
Retrieved August 17, 2016.
12. Livelli, K, et al. (2018, November 12). Operation Shaheen.
Retrieved May 1, 2019.
13. Falcone, R. (2018, January 25). OilRig uses RGDoor IIS
Backdoor on Targets in the Middle East. Retrieved July 6,
2018.
14. Sherstobitoff, R., Malhotra, A., et. al.. (2018, December 18).
Operation Sharpshooter Campaign Targets Global Defense,
Critical Infrastructure. Retrieved May 14, 2020.
15. Falcone, R., et al. (2018, July 27). New Threat Actor Group
DarkHydrus Targets Middle East Government. Retrieved
August 2, 2018.
1. Jazi, Hossein. (2021, January 6). Retrohunting APT37: North
Korean APT used VBA self decode technique to inject RokRat.
Retrieved March 22, 2022.
17. Faou, M. and Boutin, J. (2017, February). Read The Manual: A
Guide to the RTM Banking Trojan. Retrieved March 9, 2017.
1. Hasherezade. (2021, April 6). A deep dive into Saint Bot, a new
downloader. Retrieved June 9, 2022.
19. Scott W. Brady. (2020, October 15). United States vs. Yuriy
Sergeyevich Andrienko et al.. Retrieved November 25, 2020.
170. Schwarz, D. and Proofpoint Staff. (2019, January 9).
ServHelper and FlawedGrace - New malware introduced by
TA505. Retrieved May 28, 2019.
171. Kaspersky Lab. (2017, August). ShadowPad: popular server
management software hit in supply chain attack. Retrieved
March 22, 2021.
172. Hegel, T. (2021, January 13). A Global Perspective of the
SideWinder APT. Retrieved January 27, 2021.
173. Salvati, M. (2019, August 6). SILENTTRINITY Modules.
Retrieved March 24, 2022.
174. DHS/CISA, Cyber National Mission Force. (2020, October 1).
Malware Analysis Report (MAR) MAR-10303705-1.v1 –
Remote Access Trojan: SLOTHFULMEDIA. Retrieved October 2,
2020.
175. NCSC GCHQ. (2022, January 27). Small Sieve Malware
Analysis Report. Retrieved August 22, 2022.
17. FireEye. (2021, June 16). Smoking Out a DARKSIDE Aﬃliate’s
Supply Chain Software Compromise. Retrieved September 22,
2021.
177. GREAT. (2021, March 30). APT10: sophisticated multi-layered
loader Ecipekac discovered in A41APT campaign. Retrieved
June 17, 2021.
17. The BlackBerry Research and Intelligence Team. (2020,
November 12). The CostaRicto Campaign: Cyber-Espionage
Outsourced. Retrieved May 24, 2021.
179. CISA. (2021, May 6). Analysis Report (AR21-126A) FiveHands
Ransomware. Retrieved June 7, 2021.
10. Falcone, R., et al. (2020, March 3). Molerats Delivers Spark
Backdoor to Government and Telecommunications
Organizations. Retrieved December 14, 2020.
11. Check Point Research. (2019, February 4). SpeakUp: A New
Undetected Backdoor Linux Trojan. Retrieved April 17, 2019.
12. Kumar, A., Stone-Gross, Brett. (2021, September 28).
Squirrelwaﬄe: New Loader Delivering Cobalt Strike. Retrieved
August 9, 2022.
13. Baumgartner, K., Golovkin, M.. (2015, May). The MsnMM
Campaigns: The Earliest Naikon APT Campaigns. Retrieved
April 10, 2019.3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Owner/User Discovery, Technique T1033 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033/ 17/1873. Vrabie, V. (2020, November). Dissecting a Chinese APT
Targeting South Eastern Asian Government Institutions.
Retrieved September 19, 2022.
74. Cybereason Nocturnus. (2019, June 25). Operation Soft Cell: A
Worldwide Campaign Against Telecommunications Providers.
Retrieved July 18, 2019.
75. Kasza, A. and Reichel, D. (2017, February 27). The Gamaredon
Group Toolset Evolution. Retrieved March 1, 2017.
7. Kaspersky Lab's Global Research & Analysis Team. (2017,
August 30). Introducing WhiteBear. Retrieved September 21,
2017.
77. Schwarz, D. et al. (2019, October 16). TA505 Distributes New
SDBbot Remote Access Trojan with Get2 Downloader.
Retrieved May 29, 2020.
7. Sherstobitoff, R., Saavedra-Morales, J. (2018, February 02).
Gold Dragon Widens Olympics Malware Attacks, Gains
Permanent Presence on Victims’ Systems. Retrieved June 6,
2018.
79. ESET. (2020, April 28). Grandoreiro: How engorged can an EXE
get?. Retrieved November 13, 2020.
0. Mercer, W., Rascagneres, P. (2018, April 26). GravityRAT - The
Two-Year Evolution Of An APT Targeting India. Retrieved May
16, 2018.
1. Priego, A. (2021, July). THE BROTHERS GRIM: THE
REVERSING TALE OF GRIMAGENT MALWARE USED BY RYUK.
Retrieved July 16, 2021.
2. Eoin Miller. (2021, March 23). Defending Against the Zero Day:
Analyzing Attacker Behavior Post-Exploitation of Microsoft
Exchange. Retrieved October 27, 2022.
3. FireEye. (2018, February 20). APT37 (Reaper): The Overlooked
North Korean Actor. Retrieved March 1, 2018.
4. Patil, S. and Williams, M.. (2019, June 5). Government Sector
in Central Asia Targeted With New HAWKBALL Backdoor
Delivered via Microsoft Oﬃce Vulnerabilities. Retrieved June
20, 2019.
5. Kayal, A. et al. (2021, October). LYCEUM REBORN:
COUNTERINTELLIGENCE IN THE MIDDLE EAST. Retrieved
June 14, 2022.
. Knight, S.. (2020, April 16). VMware Carbon Black TAU Threat
Analysis: The Evolution of Lazarus. Retrieved May 1, 2020.
7. Hromcová, Z. (2018, June 07). InvisiMole: Surprisingly
equipped spyware, undercover since 2013. Retrieved July 10,
2018.
. Sancho, D., et al. (2012, May 22). IXESHE An APT Campaign.
Retrieved June 7, 2019.
9. Windows Defender Advanced Threat Hunting Team. (2016,
April 29). PLATINUM: Targeted attacks in South and
Southeast Asia. Retrieved February 15, 2018.
90. Levene, B, et al. (2017, May 03). Kazuar: Multiplatform
Espionage Backdoor with API Access. Retrieved July 17, 2018.
91. MSTIC. (2021, December 6). NICKEL targeting government
organizations across Latin America and Europe. Retrieved
March 18, 2022.
92. Magius, J., et al. (2017, July 19). Koadic. Retrieved June 18,
2018.
93. Jazi, H. (2021, February). LazyScripter: From Empire to double
RAT. Retrieved November 24, 2021.
94. Dani Creus, Tyler Halfpop, Robert Falcone. (2016, September
26). Sofacy's 'Komplex' OS X Trojan. Retrieved July 8, 2017.
95. Rascagneres, P. (2017, May 03). KONNI: A Malware Under The
Radar For Years. Retrieved November 5, 2018.
9. Hawley, S. et al. (2023, February 2). Turla: A Galaxy of
Opportunity. Retrieved May 15, 2023.14. Tomcik, R. et al. (2022, February 24). Left On Read: Telegram
Malware Spotted in Latest Iranian Cyber Espionage Activity.
Retrieved August 18, 2022.
15. FBI, CISA, CNMF, NCSC-UK. (2022, February 24). Iranian
Government-Sponsored Actors Conduct Cyber Operations
Against Global Government and Commercial Networks.
Retrieved September 27, 2022.
1. Marczak, B. and Scott-Railton, J.. (2016, May 29). Keep Calm
and (Don’t) Enable Macros: A New Threat Actor Targets UAE
Dissidents. Retrieved June 8, 2016.
17. Cybereason Nocturnus. (2022, February 1). StrifeWater RAT:
Iranian APT Moses Staff Adds New Trojan to Ransomware
Operations. Retrieved August 15, 2022.
1. FireEye. (2020, December 13). Highly Evasive Attacker
Leverages SolarWinds Supply Chain to Compromise Multiple
Global Victims With SUNBURST Backdoor. Retrieved January
4, 2021.
19. MSTIC. (2020, December 18). Analyzing Solorigate, the
compromised DLL ﬁle that started a sophisticated
cyberattack, and how Microsoft Defender helps protect
customers . Retrieved January 5, 2021.
190. Schlapfer, Patrick. (2022, June 6). A New Loader Gets Ready.
Retrieved December 13, 2022.
191. Ivanov, A. et al. (2018, May 7). SynAck targeted ransomware
uses the Doppelgänging technique. Retrieved May 22, 2018.
192. Daniel Lunghi. (2023, March 1). Iron Tiger’s SysUpdate
Reappears, Adds Linux Targeting. Retrieved March 20, 2023.
193. Grunzweig, J. and Miller-Osborn, J.. (2016, February 4). T9000:
Advanced Modular Backdoor Uses Complex Anti-Analysis
Techniques. Retrieved April 15, 2016.
194. Dahan, A. et al. (2019, December 11). DROPPING ANCHOR:
FROM A TRICKBOT INFECTION TO THE DISCOVERY OF THE
ANCHOR MALWARE. Retrieved September 10, 2020.
195. Secureworks. (2019, July 24). Updated Karagany Malware
Targets Energy Sector. Retrieved August 12, 2020.
19. Alintanahin, K. (2015). Operation Tropic Trooper: Relying on
Tried-and-Tested Flaws to Inﬁltrate Secret Keepers. Retrieved
June 14, 2019.
197. Adam Burgher. (2021, June 10). BackdoorDiplomacy:
Upgrading from Quarian to Turian. Retrieved September 1,
2021
19. Settle, A., et al. (2016, August 8). MONSOON - Analysis Of An
APT Campaign. Retrieved September 22, 2016.
199. Matsuda, A., Muhammad I. (2018, September 13). APT10
Targeting Japanese Corporations Using Updated TTPs.
Retrieved September 17, 2018.
200. Salem, E. et al. (2020, May 28). VALAK: MORE THAN MEETS
THE EYE . Retrieved June 19, 2020.
201. Lancaster, T., Cortes, J. (2018, January 29). VERMIN: Quasar
RAT and Custom Malware Used In Ukraine. Retrieved July 5,
2018.
202. NSA et al. (2023, May 24). People's Republic of China State-
Sponsored Cyber Actor Living off the Land to Evade Detection.
Retrieved July 27, 2023.
203. Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2023, May 24). Chinese
Cyberespionage Group BRONZE SILHOUETTE Targets U.S.
Government and Defense Organizations. Retrieved July 27,
2023.
204. CISA. (2020, July 16). MAR-10296782-3.v1 – WELLMAIL.
Retrieved September 29, 2020.
205. CISA. (2020, July 16). MAR-10296782-2.v1 – WELLMESS.
Retrieved September 24, 2020.3/22/24, 3:49 PM System Owner/User Discovery, Technique T1033 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1033/ 18/1897. Symantec Security Response Attack Investigation Team.
(2018, April 23). New Orangeworm attack group targets the
healthcare sector in the U.S., Europe, and Asia. Retrieved May
8, 2018.
9. Novetta Threat Research Group. (2016, February 24).
Operation Blockbuster: Unraveling the Long Thread of the
Sony Attack. Retrieved February 25, 2016.
99. Novetta Threat Research Group. (2016, February 24).
Operation Blockbuster: Destructive Malware Report. Retrieved
March 2, 2016.
100. Novetta Threat Research Group. (2016, February 24).
Operation Blockbuster: Loaders, Installers and Uninstallers
Report. Retrieved March 2, 2016.
101. Novetta Threat Research Group. (2016, February 24).
Operation Blockbuster: Remote Administration Tools &
Content Staging Malware Report. Retrieved March 16, 2016.
102. Sherstobitoff, R. (2018, February 12). Lazarus Resurfaces,
Targets Global Banks and Bitcoin Users. Retrieved February
19, 2018.
103. Saini, A. and Hossein, J. (2022, January 27). North Korea’s
Lazarus APT leverages Windows Update client, GitHub in
latest campaign. Retrieved January 27, 2022.
104. Anomali Labs. (2018, December 6). Pulling Linux
Rabbit/Rabbot Malware Out of a Hat. Retrieved March 4,
2019.
105. Faou, M., Tartare, M., Dupuy, T. (2019, October). OPERATION
GHOST. Retrieved September 23, 2020.
10. Yamout, M. (2021, November 29). WIRTE’s campaign in the
Middle East ‘living off the land’ since at least 2019. Retrieved
February 1, 2022.
107. BI.ZONE Cyber Threats Research Team. (2021, May 13). From
pentest to APT attack: cybercriminal group FIN7 disguises its
malware as an ethical hacker’s toolkit. Retrieved February 2,
2022.
10. Kazem, M. (2019, November 25). Trojan:W32/Lokibot.
Retrieved May 15, 2020.
109. Hsu, K. et al. (2020, June 24). Lucifer: New Cryptojacking and
DDoS Hybrid Malware Exploiting High and Critical
Vulnerabilities to Infect Windows Devices. Retrieved November
16, 2020.
110. Botezatu, B and etl. (2021, July 21). LuminousMoth - PlugX,
File Exﬁltration and Persistence Revisited. Retrieved October
20, 2022.
111. M.Léveillé, M., Cherepanov, A.. (2022, January 25). Watering
hole deploys new macOS malware, DazzleSpy, in Asia.
Retrieved May 6, 2022.
112. SentinelLabs. (2022, September 22). Metador Technical
Appendix. Retrieved April 4, 2023.20. Carr, N.. (2017, May 14). Cyber Espionage is Alive and Well:
APT32 and the Threat to Global Corporations. Retrieved June
18, 2017.
207. The BlackBerry Research & Intelligence Team. (2020, October).
BAHAMUT: Hack-for-Hire Masters of Phishing, Fake News, and
Fake Apps. Retrieved February 8, 2021.
20. Sean Gallagher, Peter Mackenzie, Elida Leite, Syed Shahram,
Bill Kearney, Anand Aijan, Sivagnanam Gn, Suraj Mundalik.
(2020, October 14). They’re back: inside a new Ryuk
ransomware attack. Retrieved October 14, 2020.
209. MalwareBytes Threat Intelligence Team. (2022, August 3).
Woody RAT: A new feature-rich malware spotted in the wild.
Retrieved December 6, 2022.
210. Robert Falcone. (2017, February 14). XAgentOSX: Sofacy's
Xagent macOS Tool. Retrieved July 12, 2017.
211. Schwarz, D., Sopko J. (2018, March 08). Donot Team
Leverages New Modular Malware Framework in South Asia.
Retrieved June 11, 2018.
212. ESET. (2018, November 20). Sednit: What’s going on with
Zebrocy?. Retrieved February 12, 2019.
213. CISA. (2020, October 29). Malware Analysis Report (AR20-
303B). Retrieved December 9, 2020.
214. Singh, S. and Antil, S. (2020, October 27). APT-31 Leverages
COVID-19 Vaccine Theme and Abuses Legitimate Online
Services. Retrieved March 24, 2021.
215. Allievi, A., et al. (2014, October 28). Threat Spotlight: Group 72,
Opening the ZxShell. Retrieved September 24, 2019.
21. Raghuprasad, C . (2022, May 11). Bitter APT adds Bangladesh
to their targets. Retrieved June 1, 2022.
217. Microsoft. (2017, December 1). MS-DRSR Directory
Replication Service (DRS) Remote Protocol. Retrieved
December 4, 2017.
21. Microsoft. (n.d.). IDL\_DRSGetNCChanges (Opnum 3).
Retrieved December 4, 2017.
219. SambaWiki. (n.d.). DRSUAPI. Retrieved December 4, 2017.
220. Schroeder, W. (2015, September 22). Mimikatz and DCSync
and ExtraSids, Oh My. Retrieved December 4, 2017.
221. Microsoft. (n.d.). MS-SAMR Security Account Manager (SAM)
Remote Protocol (Client-to-Server) - Transport. Retrieved
December 4, 2017.
222. Metcalf, S. (2015, September 25). Mimikatz DCSync Usage,
Exploitation, and Detection. Retrieved December 4, 2017.
223. PowerSploit. (n.d.). Retrieved December 4, 2014.
224. French, D. (2018, October 2). Detecting Attempts to Steal
Passwords from Memory. Retrieved October 11, 2019.