3/22/24, 3:52 PM Proxy: Domain Fronting, Sub-technique T1090.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1090/004/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:52 PM Proxy: Domain Fronting, Sub-technique T1090.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1090/004/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Proxy>Domain Fronting3/22/24, 3:52 PM Proxy: Domain Fronting, Sub-technique T1090.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1090/004/ 3/4Proxy: Domain Fronting
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0016 APT29 APT29 has used the meek domain fronting plugin for Tor to hide the destination of C2 traﬃc.
S0154 Cobalt Strike Cobalt Strike has the ability to accept a value for HTTP Host Header to enable domain fronting.
S0175 meek meek uses Domain Fronting to disguise the destination of network traﬃc as another server that is hosted in
the same Content Delivery Network (CDN) as the intended destination.
S0699 Mythic Mythic supports domain fronting via custom request headers.
S0649 SMOKEDHAM SMOKEDHAM has used a fronted domain to obfuscate its hard-coded C2 server domain.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1020 SSL/TLS
InspectionIf it is possible to inspect HTTPS traﬃc, the captures can be analyzed for connections that appear to be
domain fronting.Adversaries may take advantage of routing schemes in Content Delivery Networks (CDNs) and other services which host multiple domains
to obfuscate the intended destination of HTTPS traﬃc or traﬃc tunneled through HTTPS. Domain fronting involves using different
domain names in the SNI ﬁeld of the TLS header and the Host ﬁeld of the HTTP header. If both domains are served from the same CDN, then
the CDN may route to the address speciﬁed in the HTTP header after unwrapping the TLS header. A variation of the the technique,
"domainless" fronting, utilizes a SNI ﬁeld that is left blank; this may allow the fronting to work even when the CDN attempts to validate that
the SNI and HTTP Host ﬁelds match (if the blank SNI ﬁelds are ignored).
For example, if domain-x and domain-y are customers of the same CDN, it is possible to place domain-x in the TLS header and domain-y in
the HTTP header. Traﬃc will appear to be going to domain-x, however the CDN may route it to domain-y.Other sub-techniques of Proxy (4)
[1]
Version PermalinkID: T1090.004
Sub-technique of:  T1090

Tactic: Command and Control

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS
Contributors: Matt Kelly, @breakersall
Version: 1.1
Created: 14 March 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 30 March 2023
[2]
[3]
[4]
[5]3/22/24, 3:52 PM Proxy: Domain Fronting, Sub-technique T1090.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1090/004/ 4/4Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0029 Network TraﬃcNetwork Traﬃc
ContentMonitor and analyze traﬃc patterns and packet inspection associated to protocol(s) that
do not follow the expected protocol standards and traﬃc ﬂows (e.g extraneous packets
that do not belong to established ﬂows, gratuitous or anomalous traﬃc patterns,
anomalous syntax, or structure). Consider correlation with process monitoring and
command line to detect anomalous processes execution and command line arguments
associated to traﬃc patterns (e.g. monitor anomalies in use of ﬁles that do not normally
initiate connections for respective protocol(s)).
References
1. David Fiﬁeld, Chang Lan, Rod Hynes, Percy Wegmann, and
Vern Paxson. (2015). Blocking-resistant communication
through domain fronting. Retrieved November 20, 2017.
2. Dunwoody, M. and Carr, N.. (2016, September 27). No Easy
Breach DerbyCon 2016. Retrieved October 4, 2016.
3. Strategic Cyber LLC. (2020, November 5). Cobalt Strike:
Advanced Threat Tactics for Penetration Testers. Retrieved
April 13, 2021.4. Thomas, C. (n.d.). Mythc Documentation. Retrieved March 25,
2022.
5. FireEye. (2021, June 16). Smoking Out a DARKSIDE Aﬃliate’s
Supply Chain Software Compromise. Retrieved September 22,
2021.