3/22/24, 3:46 PM Use Alternate Authentication Material: Pass the Hash, Sub-technique T1550.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1550/002/ 1/6Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:46 PM Use Alternate Authentication Material: Pass the Hash, Sub-technique T1550.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1550/002/ 2/6Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Use Alternate Authentication Material>Pass the Hash3/22/24, 3:46 PM Use Alternate Authentication Material: Pass the Hash, Sub-technique T1550.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1550/002/ 3/6Use Alternate Authentication Material: Pass the Hash
Adversaries may "pass the hash" using stolen password hashes to move laterally within an environment, bypassing normal system access
controls. Pass the hash (PtH) is a method of authenticating as a user without having access to the user's cleartext password. This method
bypasses standard authentication steps that require a cleartext password, moving directly into the portion of the authentication that uses the
password hash.
When performing PtH, valid password hashes for the account being used are captured using a Credential Access technique. Captured
hashes are used with PtH to authenticate as that user. Once authenticated, PtH may be used to perform actions on local or remote systems.
Adversaries may also use stolen password hashes to "overpass the hash." Similar to PtH, this involves using a password hash to
authenticate as a user but also uses the password hash to create a valid Kerberos ticket. This ticket can then be used to perform Pass the
Ticket attacks.Other sub-techniques of Use Alternate Authentication Material (4)
[1]
Version PermalinkID: T1550.002
Sub-technique of:  T1550

Tactics: Defense Evasion, Lateral Movement

Platforms: Windows

Defense Bypassed: System Access Controls
Contributors: Blake Strom, Microsoft 365 Defender; Travis Smith, Tripwire
Version: 1.2
Created: 30 January 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 28 July 20233/22/24, 3:46 PM Use Alternate Authentication Material: Pass the Hash, Sub-technique T1550.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1550/002/ 4/6Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0006 APT1 The APT1 group is known to have used pass the hash.
G0007 APT28 APT28 has used pass the hash for lateral movement.
G0050 APT32 APT32 has used pass the hash for lateral movement.
S1081 BADHATCH BADHATCH can perform pass the hash on compromised machines with x64 versions.
G0114 Chimera Chimera has dumped password hashes for use in pass the hash authentication attacks.
S0154 Cobalt Strike Cobalt Strike can perform pass the hash.
S0488 CrackMapExec CrackMapExec can pass the hash to authenticate via SMB.
S0363 Empire Empire can perform pass the hash attacks.
G1016 FIN13 FIN13 has used the PowerShell utility Invoke-SMBExec to execute the pass the hash method for lateral
movement within an compromised environment.
G0093 GALLIUM GALLIUM used dumped hashes to authenticate to other machines via pass the hash.
S0376 HOPLIGHT HOPLIGHT has been observed loading several APIs associated with Pass the Hash.
G0094 Kimsuky Kimsuky has used pass the hash for authentication to remote access software used in C2.
S0002 Mimikatz Mimikatz's SEKURLSA::Pth module can impersonate a user, with only a password hash, to execute
arbitrary commands.
C0002 Night Dragon During Night Dragon, threat actors used pass-the-hash tools to obtain authenticated access to sensitive
internal desktops and servers.
S0122 Pass-The-Hash
ToolkitPass-The-Hash Toolkit can perform pass the hash.
S0378 PoshC2 PoshC2 has a number of modules that leverage pass the hash for lateral movement.
G0102 Wizard Spider Wizard Spider has used the Invoke-SMBExec PowerShell cmdlet to execute the pass-the-hash
technique and utilized stolen password hashes to move laterally.[2]
[3]
[4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]
[12]
[13]
[14][15][16]
[17]
[2]
[18]
[19]3/22/24, 3:46 PM Use Alternate Authentication Material: Pass the Hash, Sub-technique T1550.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1550/002/ 5/6Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1026 Privileged Account
ManagementLimit credential overlap across systems to prevent the damage of credential compromise and reduce
the adversary's ability to perform Lateral Movement between systems.
M1051 Update Software Apply patch KB2871997 to Windows 7 and higher systems to limit the default access of accounts in
the local administrator group.
M1052 User Account
ControlEnable pass the hash mitigations to apply UAC restrictions to local accounts on network logon. The
associated Registry key is located
HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\Policies\System\LocalAccountTokenFilt
erPolicy .
Through GPO: Computer Conﬁguration > [Policies] > Administrative Templates > SCM: Pass the Hash
Mitigations: Apply UAC restrictions to local accounts on network logons.
M1018 User Account
ManagementDo not allow a domain user to be in the local administrator group on multiple systems.
Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0026 Active DirectoryActive Directory
Credential
RequestMonitor requests of new ticket granting ticket or service tickets to a Domain Controller.
Windows Security events such as 4768 (A Kerberos authentication ticket (TGT) was
requested) and 4769 (A Kerberos service ticket was requested) combined with logon
session creation information may be indicative of an overpass the hash attempt.
DS0028 Logon Session Logon Session
CreationMonitor newly created logons and credentials used in events and review for
discrepancies. Unusual remote logins that correlate with other suspicious activity (such
as writing and executing binaries) may indicate malicious activity.
Note: Analytic Event ID is for Windows Security Log (Event ID 4624 - An account was
successfully logged on). The successful use of Pass the Hash for lateral movement
between workstations would trigger Event ID 4624, with an event level of Information,
from the Windows Security log. This event would show an account logon with a
LogonType of 3 using NTLM authentication, a logon that is not a domain logon, and
the user account not being the ANONYMOUS LOGON account.
Analytic 1
logons = filter log\_events where (event\_id== "4624" AND target\_user\_name
!= "ANONYMOUS LOGON" ANDauthentication\_package\_name == "NTLM")
DS0002 User Account User Account
AuthenticationMonitor for user authentication attempts. From a classic Pass-The-Hash perspective,
this technique uses a hash through the NTLMv1 / NTLMv2 protocol to authenticate
against a compromised endpoint. This technique does not touch Kerberos. Therefore,
NTLM LogonType 3 authentications that are not associated to a domain login and are
not anonymous logins are suspicious. From an Over-Pass-The-Hash perspective, an
adversary wants to exchange the hash for a Kerberos authentication ticket (TGT). One
way to do this is by creating a sacriﬁcial logon session with dummy credentials
(LogonType 9) and then inject the hash into that session which triggers the Kerberos
authentication process.[20]
[21]3/22/24, 3:46 PM Use Alternate Authentication Material: Pass the Hash, Sub-technique T1550.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1550/002/ 6/6References
1. Warren, J. (2019, February 26). How to Detect Overpass-the-
Hash Attacks. Retrieved February 4, 2021.
2. Mandiant. (n.d.). APT1 Exposing One of China’s Cyber
Espionage Units. Retrieved July 18, 2016.
3. Anthe, C. et al. (2015, October 19). Microsoft Security
Intelligence Report Volume 19. Retrieved December 23, 2015.
4. Dahan, A. (2017). Operation Cobalt Kitty. Retrieved December
27, 2018.
5. Vrabie, V., et al. (2021, March 10). FIN8 Returns with Improved
BADHATCH Toolkit. Retrieved September 8, 2021.
. Jansen, W . (2021, January 12). Abusing cloud services to ﬂy
under the radar. Retrieved January 19, 2021.
7. Cobalt Strike. (2017, December 8). Tactics, Techniques, and
Procedures. Retrieved December 20, 2017.
. byt3bl33d3r. (2018, September 8). SMB: Command Reference.
Retrieved July 17, 2020.
9. Schroeder, W., Warner, J., Nelson, M. (n.d.). Github
PowerShellEmpire. Retrieved April 28, 2016.
10. Ta, V., et al. (2022, August 8). FIN13: A Cybercriminal Threat
Actor Focused on Mexico. Retrieved February 9, 2023.
11. Cybereason Nocturnus. (2019, June 25). Operation Soft Cell: A
Worldwide Campaign Against Telecommunications Providers.
Retrieved July 18, 2019.12. US-CERT. (2019, April 10). MAR-10135536-8 – North Korean
Trojan: HOPLIGHT. Retrieved April 19, 2019.
13. CISA, FBI, CNMF. (2020, October 27). https://us-
cert.cisa.gov/ncas/alerts/aa20-301a. Retrieved November 4,
2020.
14. Metcalf, S. (2015, November 13). Unoﬃcial Guide to Mimikatz
& Command Reference. Retrieved December 23, 2015.
15. The Australian Cyber Security Centre (ACSC), the Canadian
Centre for Cyber Security (CCCS), the New Zealand National
Cyber Security Centre (NZ NCSC), CERT New Zealand, the UK
National Cyber Security Centre (UK NCSC) and the US National
Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center
(NCCIC). (2018, October 11). Joint report on publicly available
hacking tools. Retrieved March 11, 2019.
1. Strategic Cyber LLC. (2020, November 5). Cobalt Strike:
Advanced Threat Tactics for Penetration Testers. Retrieved
April 13, 2021.
17. McAfee® Foundstone® Professional Services and McAfee
Labs™. (2011, February 10). Global Energy Cyberattacks:
“Night Dragon”. Retrieved February 19, 2018.
1. Nettitude. (2018, July 23). Python Server for PoshC2.
Retrieved April 23, 2019.
19. Shilko, J., et al. (2021, October 7). FIN12: The Proliﬁc
Ransomware Intrusion Threat Actor That Has Aggressively
Pursued Healthcare Targets. Retrieved June 15, 2023.
20. National Security Agency/Central Security Service Information
Assurance Directorate. (2015, August 7). Spotting the
Adversary with Windows Event Log Monitoring. Retrieved
September 6, 2018.
21. NSA IAD. (2017, January 24). MS Security Guide. Retrieved
December 18, 2017.