3/22/24, 3:34 PM Compromise Infrastructure: Virtual Private Server, Sub-technique T1584.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1584/003/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:34 PM Compromise Infrastructure: Virtual Private Server, Sub-technique T1584.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1584/003/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Compromise Infrastructure>Virtual Private Server3/22/24, 3:34 PM Compromise Infrastructure: Virtual Private Server, Sub-technique T1584.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1584/003/ 3/4Compromise Infrastructure: Virtual Private Server
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0010 Turla Turla has used the VPS infrastructure of compromised Iranian threat actors.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1056 Pre-
compromiseThis technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on behaviors performed
outside of the scope of enterprise defenses and controls.
Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0035 Internet Scan Response
ContentOnce adversaries have provisioned software on a compromised VPS (ex: for use as a
command and control server), internet scans may reveal VPSs that adversaries have
compromised. Consider looking for identiﬁable patterns such as services listening,
certiﬁcates in use, SSL/TLS negotiation features, or other response artifacts associated
with adversary C2 software.
Response
MetadataMuch of this activity will take place outside the visibility of the target organization, making
detection of this behavior diﬃcult. Detection efforts may be focused on related stages of
the adversary lifecycle, such as during Command and Control.Adversaries may compromise third-party Virtual Private Servers (VPSs) that can be used during targeting. There exist a variety of cloud
service providers that will sell virtual machines/containers as a service. Adversaries may compromise VPSs purchased by third-party entities.
By compromising a VPS to use as infrastructure, adversaries can make it diﬃcult to physically tie back operations to themselves.
Compromising a VPS for use in later stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as Command and Control, can allow adversaries to beneﬁt from
the ubiquity and trust associated with higher reputation cloud service providers as well as that added by the compromised third-party.Other sub-techniques of Compromise Infrastructure (7)
[1]
Version PermalinkID: T1584.003
Sub-technique of:  T1584

Tactic: Resource Development

Platforms: PRE
Version: 1.1
Created: 01 October 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 17 October 2021
[1]
[2][3][4]3/22/24, 3:34 PM Compromise Infrastructure: Virtual Private Server, Sub-technique T1584.003 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1584/003/ 4/4References
1. NSA/NCSC. (2019, October 21). Cybersecurity Advisory: Turla
Group Exploits Iranian APT To Expand Coverage Of Victims.
Retrieved October 16, 2020.
2. ThreatConnect. (2020, December 15). Infrastructure Research
and Hunting: Boiling the Domain Ocean. Retrieved October 12,
2021.3. Stephens, A. (2020, July 13). SCANdalous! (External Detection
Using Network Scan Data and Automation). Retrieved October
12, 2021.
4. Koczwara, M. (2021, September 7). Hunting Cobalt Strike C2
with Shodan. Retrieved October 12, 2021.