3/22/24, 3:49 PM Remote Services, Technique T1021 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/ 1/6Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:49 PM Remote Services, Technique T1021 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/ 2/6Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Remote Services3/22/24, 3:49 PM Remote Services, Technique T1021 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/ 3/6Remote Services
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S1063 Brute Ratel C4 Brute Ratel C4 has the ability to use RPC for lateral movement.
S0437 Kivars Kivars has the ability to remotely trigger keyboard input and mouse clicks. 
S1016 MacMa MacMa can manage remote screen sessions.
S0603 Stuxnet Stuxnet can propagate via peer-to-peer communication and updates using RPC.
G0102 Wizard Spider Wizard Spider has used the WebDAV protocol to execute Ryuk payloads hosted on network ﬁle shares.Adversaries may use Valid Accounts to log into a service that accepts remote connections, such as telnet, SSH, and VNC. The adversary may
then perform actions as the logged-on user.
In an enterprise environment, servers and workstations can be organized into domains. Domains provide centralized identity management,
allowing users to login using one set of credentials across the entire network. If an adversary is able to obtain a set of valid domain
credentials, they could login to many different machines using remote access protocols such as secure shell (SSH) or remote desktop
protocol (RDP). They could also login to accessible SaaS or IaaS services, such as those that federate their identities to the domain.
Legitimate applications (such as Software Deployment Tools and other administrative programs) may utilize Remote Services to access
remote hosts. For example, Apple Remote Desktop (ARD) on macOS is native software used for remote management. ARD leverages a blend
of protocols, including VNC to send the screen and control buffers and SSH for secure ﬁle transfer. Adversaries can abuse applications
such as ARD to gain remote code execution and perform lateral movement. In versions of macOS prior to 10.14, an adversary can escalate
an SSH session to an ARD session which enables an adversary to accept TCC (Transparency, Consent, and Control) prompts without user
interaction and gain access to data.Sub-techniques (8)
[1][2]
[3][4][5]
[6][7][4]
Version PermalinkID: T1021
Sub-techniques:  T1021.001, T1021.002, T1021.003, T1021.004, T1021.005, T1021.006, T1021.007, T1021.008

Tactic: Lateral Movement

Platforms: IaaS, Linux, Windows, macOS

System Requirements: Active remote service accepting connections and valid credentials
Contributors: Dan Borges, @1njection
Version: 1.4
Created: 31 May 2017
Last Modiﬁed: 02 June 2023
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]
[12]3/22/24, 3:49 PM Remote Services, Technique T1021 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/ 4/6Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1042 Disable or Remove
Feature or ProgramIf remote services, such as the ability to make direct connections to cloud virtual machines, are
not required, disable these connection types where feasible.
M1032 Multi-factor
AuthenticationUse multi-factor authentication on remote service logons where possible.
M1018 User Account
ManagementLimit the accounts that may use remote services. Limit the permissions for accounts that are at
higher risk of compromise; for example, conﬁgure SSH so users can only run speciﬁc programs.3/22/24, 3:49 PM Remote Services, Technique T1021 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/ 5/6Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0017 Command Command
ExecutionMonitor executed commands and arguments that may use Valid Accounts to log into a
service speciﬁcally designed to accept remote connections, such as telnet, SSH, and
VNC. The adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user.
Malicious actors may rename built-in commands or external tools, such as those
provided by SysInternals, to better blend in with the environment. In those cases, the ﬁle
path name is arbitrary and may blend in well with the background. If the arguments are
closely inspected, it may be possible to infer what tools are running and understand
what an adversary is doing. When any legitimate software shares the same command
lines, it must be whitelisted according to the expected parameters.
Any tool of interest with commonly known command line usage can be detecting by
command line analysis. Known substrings of command lines include
PuTTY
port forwarding -R \* -pw
secure copy (scp) -pw \* \* @
mimikatz sekurlsa::
RAR  -hp
Archive\* a \* Additionally, it may be useful to ﬁnd IP addresses in the command line
\d{1,3}.\d{1,3}.\d{1,3}.\d{1,3}
Analytic 1 - Suspicious Arguments
port\_fwd = filter process where (command\_line match "-R . -pw")scp =
filter process where (command\_line match "-pw . . .@."mimikatz = filter
process where (command\_line match "sekurlsa")rar = filter process where
(command\_line match " -hp ")archive = filter process where (command\_line
match ". a .\*")ip\_addr = filter process where (command\_line match
\d{1,3}.\d{1,3}.\d{1,3}.\d{1,3})
DS0028 Logon Session Logon Session
CreationMonitor for user accounts logged into systems they would not normally access or
abnormal access patterns, such as multiple systems over a relatively short period of
time. Correlate use of login activity related to remote services with unusual behavior or
other malicious or suspicious activity. Adversaries will likely need to learn about an
environment and the relationships between systems through Discovery techniques prior
to attempting Lateral Movement. For example, in macOS you can review logs for
"screensharingd" and "Authentication" event messages. 
Note: When using Security event id 4624, %$ means user names that do not end with $
character. Usually, computer accounts or local system accounts names end with the $
character. When using Security event 4624, UserName and UserLogonId correspond to
TargetUserName and TargetLogonId respectively. When using Security event 4624,
LogonType 3 corresponds to a Network Logon
Analytic 1 - New services being created under network logon
sessions by non-system users
remote\_logon\_sessions = filter Hostname, UserName, UserLogonId, SourceIp
where event\_id == "4624" AND LogonType == "3" AND UserName NOT LIKE '%$'
new\_services = filter UserName, UserLogonId, ServiceName where event\_id =
"4697"
suspicious\_services = filter l.UserName, l.UserLogonId, l.SourceIp,
s.ServicenameFROM remote\_logon\_sessions lINNER JOIN new\_services sON
l.UserLogonId = s.UserLogonId[7][13]3/22/24, 3:49 PM Remote Services, Technique T1021 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1021/ 6/6ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0011 Module Module Load Monitor DLL/PE ﬁle events, speciﬁcally creation of these binary ﬁles as well as the
loading of DLLs into processes, that may use Valid Accounts to log into a service
speciﬁcally designed to accept remote connections, such as telnet, SSH, and VNC. The
adversary may then perform actions as the logged-on user.
Note: On Windows, Sysmon Event ID 7 (Image loaded) can be used to monitor the
loading of DLLs into processes, including those designed to accept remote connections.
This is a particularly noisy event and can generate a large volume of data, so we
recommend baselining and ﬁltering out any known benign processes and module to
help reduce the number of events that are produced.
DS0033 Network Share Network Share
AccessMonitor interactions with network shares, such as reads or ﬁle transfers, using remote
services such as Server Message Block (SMB).
DS0029 Network TraﬃcNetwork
Connection
CreationMonitor for newly constructed network connections that may use Valid Accounts to log
into a service speciﬁcally designed to accept remote connections, such as RDP, telnet,
SSH, and VNC. Monitor network connections involving common remote management
protocols, such as ports tcp:3283 and tcp:5900, as well as ports tcp: 3389 and tcp:22 for
remote login.
Note: Network Analysis frameworks such as Zeek can be used to capture, decode, and
alert on network service protocols such as SSH and RDP.
Analytic 1 - Suspicious Protocols
suspicious\_protocol = filter network\_traffic where ((server\_port = "636"
AND protocol = "6") OR (server\_port = "389" AND protocol = "17"))
Network Traﬃc
FlowMonitor network data for uncommon data ﬂows that may be related to abuse of Valid
Accounts to log into a service speciﬁcally designed to accept remote connections, such
as RDP, telnet, SSH, and VNC.
DS0009 Process Process
CreationMonitor for newly executed processes that may use Valid Accounts to log into a service
speciﬁcally designed to accept remote connections, such as RDP, telnet, SSH, and VNC.
The adversary may then perform actions that spawn additional processes as the logged-
on user.
DS0005 WMI WMI Creation Monitor for newly constructed WMI objects that is often used to log into a service that
accepts remote connects.
References
1. SSH.COM. (n.d.). SSH (Secure Shell). Retrieved March 23,
2020.
2. Microsoft. (n.d.). Remote Desktop Services. Retrieved June 1,
2016.
3. Apple. (n.d.). Use MDM to enable Remote Management in
macOS. Retrieved September 23, 2021.
4. Apple. (n.d.). Use the kickstart command-line utility in Apple
Remote Desktop. Retrieved September 23, 2021.
5. Apple. (n.d.). Apple Remote Desktop Administrator Guide
Version 3.3. Retrieved October 5, 2021.
. Jake Nicastro, Willi Ballenthin. (2019, October 9). Living off
the Orchard: Leveraging Apple Remote Desktop for Good and
Evil. Retrieved August 16, 2021.
7. Dan Borges. (2019, July 21). MacOS Red Teaming 206: ARD
(Apple Remote Desktop Protocol). Retrieved September 10,
2021.. Harbison, M. and Renals, P. (2022, July 5). When Pentest Tools
Go Brutal: Red-Teaming Tool Being Abused by Malicious
Actors. Retrieved February 1, 2023.
9. Bermejo, L., et al. (2017, June 22). Following the Trail of
BlackTech’s Cyber Espionage Campaigns. Retrieved May 5,
2020.
10. M.Léveillé, M., Cherepanov, A.. (2022, January 25). Watering
hole deploys new macOS malware, DazzleSpy, in Asia.
Retrieved May 6, 2022.
11. Nicolas Falliere, Liam O Murchu, Eric Chien 2011, February
W32.Stuxnet Dossier (Version 1.4) Retrieved. 2017/09/22
12. Shilko, J., et al. (2021, October 7). FIN12: The Proliﬁc
Ransomware Intrusion Threat Actor That Has Aggressively
Pursued Healthcare Targets. Retrieved June 15, 2023.
13. Sarah Edwards. (2020, April 30). Analysis of Apple Uniﬁed
Logs: Quarantine Edition [Entry 6] – Working From Home?
Remote Logins. Retrieved August 19, 2021.