3/22/24, 3:32 PM Discovery, Tactic TA0007 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0007/ 1/8Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Discovery, Tactic TA0007 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0007/ 2/8Home>Tactics>Enterprise>Discovery3/22/24, 3:32 PM Discovery, Tactic TA0007 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0007/ 3/8D i s c o v e r y
T e c h n i q u e s
Techniques: 32The adversary is trying to ﬁgure out your environment.
Discovery consists of techniques an adversary may use to gain knowledge about the system and internal network. These techniques help
adversaries observe the environment and orient themselves before deciding how to act. They also allow adversaries to explore what they can
control and what’s around their entry point in order to discover how it could beneﬁt their current objective. Native operating system tools are
often used toward this post-compromise information-gathering objective.
Version PermalinkID: TA0007
Created: 17 October 2018
Last Modiﬁed: 19 July 20193/22/24, 3:32 PM Discovery, Tactic TA0007 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0007/ 4/8ID Name Description
T1087 Account Discovery Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of valid accounts, usernames, or email addresses on a
system or within a compromised environment. This information can help adversaries determine
which accounts exist, which can aid in follow-on behavior such as brute-forcing, spear-phishing
attacks, or account takeovers (e.g., Valid Accounts).
.001 Local Account Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of local system accounts. This information can help
adversaries determine which local accounts exist on a system to aid in follow-on behavior.
.002 Domain Account Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of domain accounts. This information can help
adversaries determine which domain accounts exist to aid in follow-on behavior such as
targeting speciﬁc accounts which possess particular privileges.
.003 Email Account Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of email addresses and accounts. Adversaries may try
to dump Exchange address lists such as global address lists (GALs).
.004 Cloud Account Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of cloud accounts. Cloud accounts are those created
and conﬁgured by an organization for use by users, remote support, services, or for
administration of resources within a cloud service provider or SaaS application.
T1010 Application Window
DiscoveryAdversaries may attempt to get a listing of open application windows. Window listings could
convey information about how the system is used. For example, information about application
windows could be used identify potential data to collect as well as identifying security tooling
(Security Software Discovery) to evade.
T1217 Browser Information
DiscoveryAdversaries may enumerate information about browsers to learn more about compromised
environments. Data saved by browsers (such as bookmarks, accounts, and browsing history)
may reveal a variety of personal information about users (e.g., banking sites,
relationships/interests, social media, etc.) as well as details about internal network resources
such as servers, tools/dashboards, or other related infrastructure.
T1580 Cloud Infrastructure
DiscoveryAn adversary may attempt to discover infrastructure and resources that are available within an
infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS) environment. This includes compute service resources such as
instances, virtual machines, and snapshots as well as resources of other services including the
storage and database services.
T1538 Cloud Service
DashboardAn adversary may use a cloud service dashboard GUI with stolen credentials to gain useful
information from an operational cloud environment, such as speciﬁc services, resources, and
features. For example, the GCP Command Center can be used to view all assets, ﬁndings of
potential security risks, and to run additional queries, such as ﬁnding public IP addresses and
open ports.
T1526 Cloud Service Discovery An adversary may attempt to enumerate the cloud services running on a system after gaining
access. These methods can differ from platform-as-a-service (PaaS), to infrastructure-as-a-
service (IaaS), or software-as-a-service (SaaS). Many services exist throughout the various
cloud providers and can include Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery (CI/CD),
Lambda Functions, Azure AD, etc. They may also include security services, such as AWS
GuardDuty and Microsoft Defender for Cloud, and logging services, such as AWS CloudTrail and
Google Cloud Audit Logs.
T1619 Cloud Storage Object
DiscoveryAdversaries may enumerate objects in cloud storage infrastructure. Adversaries may use this
information during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including requesting all
or speciﬁc objects from cloud storage. Similar to File and Directory Discovery on a local host,
after identifying available storage services (i.e. Cloud Infrastructure Discovery) adversaries may
access the contents/objects stored in cloud infrastructure.
T1613 Container and Resource
DiscoveryAdversaries may attempt to discover containers and other resources that are available within a
containers environment. Other resources may include images, deployments, pods, nodes, and
other information such as the status of a cluster.
T1622 Debugger Evasion Adversaries may employ various means to detect and avoid debuggers. Debuggers are typically
used by defenders to trace and/or analyze the execution of potential malware payloads.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Discovery, Tactic TA0007 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0007/ 5/8ID Name Description
T1652 Device Driver Discovery Adversaries may attempt to enumerate local device drivers on a victim host. Information about
device drivers may highlight various insights that shape follow-on behaviors, such as the
function/purpose of the host, present security tools (i.e. Security Software Discovery) or other
defenses (e.g., Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion), as well as potential exploitable vulnerabilities
(e.g., Exploitation for Privilege Escalation).
T1482 Domain Trust Discovery Adversaries may attempt to gather information on domain trust relationships that may be used
to identify lateral movement opportunities in Windows multi-domain/forest environments.
Domain trusts provide a mechanism for a domain to allow access to resources based on the
authentication procedures of another domain. Domain trusts allow the users of the trusted
domain to access resources in the trusting domain. The information discovered may help the
adversary conduct SID-History Injection, Pass the Ticket, and Kerberoasting. Domain trusts can
be enumerated using the DSEnumerateDomainTrusts() Win32 API call, .NET methods, and
LDAP. The Windows utility Nltest is known to be used by adversaries to enumerate domain
trusts.
T1083 File and Directory
DiscoveryAdversaries may enumerate ﬁles and directories or may search in speciﬁc locations of a host or
network share for certain information within a ﬁle system. Adversaries may use the information
from File and Directory Discovery during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors,
including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts speciﬁc actions.
T1615 Group Policy Discovery Adversaries may gather information on Group Policy settings to identify paths for privilege
escalation, security measures applied within a domain, and to discover patterns in domain
objects that can be manipulated or used to blend in the environment. Group Policy allows for
centralized management of user and computer settings in Active Directory (AD). Group policy
objects (GPOs) are containers for group policy settings made up of ﬁles stored within a
predictable network path \\SYSVOL\\Policies\ .
T1654 Log Enumeration Adversaries may enumerate system and service logs to ﬁnd useful data. These logs may
highlight various types of valuable insights for an adversary, such as user authentication
records (Account Discovery), security or vulnerable software (Software Discovery), or hosts
within a compromised network (Remote System Discovery).
T1046 Network Service
DiscoveryAdversaries may attempt to get a listing of services running on remote hosts and local network
infrastructure devices, including those that may be vulnerable to remote software exploitation.
Common methods to acquire this information include port and/or vulnerability scans using
tools that are brought onto a system.
T1135 Network Share DiscoveryAdversaries may look for folders and drives shared on remote systems as a means of
identifying sources of information to gather as a precursor for Collection and to identify
potential systems of interest for Lateral Movement. Networks often contain shared network
drives and folders that enable users to access ﬁle directories on various systems across a
network.
T1040 Network Sniﬃng Adversaries may sniff network traﬃc to capture information about an environment, including
authentication material passed over the network. Network sniﬃng refers to using the network
interface on a system to monitor or capture information sent over a wired or wireless
connection. An adversary may place a network interface into promiscuous mode to passively
access data in transit over the network, or use span ports to capture a larger amount of data.
T1201 Password Policy
DiscoveryAdversaries may attempt to access detailed information about the password policy used within
an enterprise network or cloud environment. Password policies are a way to enforce complex
passwords that are diﬃcult to guess or crack through Brute Force. This information may help
the adversary to create a list of common passwords and launch dictionary and/or brute force
attacks which adheres to the policy (e.g. if the minimum password length should be 8, then not
trying passwords such as 'pass123'; not checking for more than 3-4 passwords per account if
the lockout is set to 6 as to not lock out accounts).3/22/24, 3:32 PM Discovery, Tactic TA0007 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0007/ 6/8ID Name Description
T1120 Peripheral Device
DiscoveryAdversaries may attempt to gather information about attached peripheral devices and
components connected to a computer system. Peripheral devices could include auxiliary
resources that support a variety of functionalities such as keyboards, printers, cameras, smart
card readers, or removable storage. The information may be used to enhance their awareness
of the system and network environment or may be used for further actions.
T1069 Permission Groups
DiscoveryAdversaries may attempt to discover group and permission settings. This information can help
adversaries determine which user accounts and groups are available, the membership of users
in particular groups, and which users and groups have elevated permissions.
.001 Local Groups Adversaries may attempt to ﬁnd local system groups and permission settings. The knowledge
of local system permission groups can help adversaries determine which groups exist and
which users belong to a particular group. Adversaries may use this information to determine
which users have elevated permissions, such as the users found within the local administrators
group.
.002 Domain Groups Adversaries may attempt to ﬁnd domain-level groups and permission settings. The knowledge
of domain-level permission groups can help adversaries determine which groups exist and
which users belong to a particular group. Adversaries may use this information to determine
which users have elevated permissions, such as domain administrators.
.003 Cloud Groups Adversaries may attempt to ﬁnd cloud groups and permission settings. The knowledge of cloud
permission groups can help adversaries determine the particular roles of users and groups
within an environment, as well as which users are associated with a particular group.
T1057 Process Discovery Adversaries may attempt to get information about running processes on a system. Information
obtained could be used to gain an understanding of common software/applications running on
systems within the network. Adversaries may use the information from Process Discovery
during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the
adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts speciﬁc actions.
T1012 Query Registry Adversaries may interact with the Windows Registry to gather information about the system,
conﬁguration, and installed software.
T1018 Remote System
DiscoveryAdversaries may attempt to get a listing of other systems by IP address, hostname, or other
logical identiﬁer on a network that may be used for Lateral Movement from the current system.
Functionality could exist within remote access tools to enable this, but utilities available on the
operating system could also be used such as Ping or net view using Net.
T1518 Software Discovery Adversaries may attempt to get a listing of software and software versions that are installed on
a system or in a cloud environment. Adversaries may use the information from Software
Discovery during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not
the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts speciﬁc actions.
.001 Security Software
DiscoveryAdversaries may attempt to get a listing of security software, conﬁgurations, defensive tools,
and sensors that are installed on a system or in a cloud environment. This may include things
such as ﬁrewall rules and anti-virus. Adversaries may use the information from Security
Software Discovery during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including
whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or attempts speciﬁc actions.
T1082 System Information
DiscoveryAn adversary may attempt to get detailed information about the operating system and
hardware, including version, patches, hotﬁxes, service packs, and architecture. Adversaries may
use the information from System Information Discovery during automated discovery to shape
follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or
attempts speciﬁc actions.
T1614 System Location
DiscoveryAdversaries may gather information in an attempt to calculate the geographical location of a
victim host. Adversaries may use the information from System Location Discovery during
automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully
infects the target and/or attempts speciﬁc actions.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Discovery, Tactic TA0007 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0007/ 7/8ID Name Description
.001 System Language
DiscoveryAdversaries may attempt to gather information about the system language of a victim in order
to infer the geographical location of that host. This information may be used to shape follow-on
behaviors, including whether the adversary infects the target and/or attempts speciﬁc actions.
This decision may be employed by malware developers and operators to reduce their risk of
attracting the attention of speciﬁc law enforcement agencies or prosecution/scrutiny from other
entities.
T1016 System Network
Conﬁguration DiscoveryAdversaries may look for details about the network conﬁguration and settings, such as IP
and/or MAC addresses, of systems they access or through information discovery of remote
systems. Several operating system administration utilities exist that can be used to gather this
information. Examples include Arp, ipconﬁg/ifconﬁg, nbtstat, and route.
.001 Internet Connection
DiscoveryAdversaries may check for Internet connectivity on compromised systems. This may be
performed during automated discovery and can be accomplished in numerous ways such as
using Ping, tracert , and GET requests to websites.
.002 Wi-Fi Discovery Adversaries may search for information about Wi-Fi networks, such as network names and
passwords, on compromised systems. Adversaries may use Wi-Fi information as part of
Account Discovery, Remote System Discovery, and other discovery or Credential Access activity
to support both ongoing and future campaigns.
T1049 System Network
Connections DiscoveryAdversaries may attempt to get a listing of network connections to or from the compromised
system they are currently accessing or from remote systems by querying for information over
the network.
T1033 System Owner/User
DiscoveryAdversaries may attempt to identify the primary user, currently logged in user, set of users that
commonly uses a system, or whether a user is actively using the system. They may do this, for
example, by retrieving account usernames or by using OS Credential Dumping. The information
may be collected in a number of different ways using other Discovery techniques, because user
and username details are prevalent throughout a system and include running process
ownership, ﬁle/directory ownership, session information, and system logs. Adversaries may use
the information from System Owner/User Discovery during automated discovery to shape
follow-on behaviors, including whether or not the adversary fully infects the target and/or
attempts speciﬁc actions.
T1007 System Service
DiscoveryAdversaries may try to gather information about registered local system services. Adversaries
may obtain information about services using tools as well as OS utility commands such as sc
query , tasklist /svc , systemctl --type=service , and net start .
T1124 System Time Discovery An adversary may gather the system time and/or time zone from a local or remote system. The
system time is set and stored by the Windows Time Service within a domain to maintain time
synchronization between systems and services in an enterprise network.
T1497 Virtualization/Sandbox
EvasionAdversaries may employ various means to detect and avoid virtualization and analysis
environments. This may include changing behaviors based on the results of checks for the
presence of artifacts indicative of a virtual machine environment (VME) or sandbox. If the
adversary detects a VME, they may alter their malware to disengage from the victim or conceal
the core functions of the implant. They may also search for VME artifacts before dropping
secondary or additional payloads. Adversaries may use the information learned from
Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors.
.001 System Checks Adversaries may employ various system checks to detect and avoid virtualization and analysis
environments. This may include changing behaviors based on the results of checks for the
presence of artifacts indicative of a virtual machine environment (VME) or sandbox. If the
adversary detects a VME, they may alter their malware to disengage from the victim or conceal
the core functions of the implant. They may also search for VME artifacts before dropping
secondary or additional payloads. Adversaries may use the information learned from
Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Discovery, Tactic TA0007 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0007/ 8/8ID Name Description
.002 User Activity Based
ChecksAdversaries may employ various user activity checks to detect and avoid virtualization and
analysis environments. This may include changing behaviors based on the results of checks for
the presence of artifacts indicative of a virtual machine environment (VME) or sandbox. If the
adversary detects a VME, they may alter their malware to disengage from the victim or conceal
the core functions of the implant. They may also search for VME artifacts before dropping
secondary or additional payloads. Adversaries may use the information learned from
Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors.
.003 Time Based Evasion Adversaries may employ various time-based methods to detect and avoid virtualization and
analysis environments. This may include enumerating time-based properties, such as uptime or
the system clock, as well as the use of timers or other triggers to avoid a virtual machine
environment (VME) or sandbox, speciﬁcally those that are automated or only operate for a
limited amount of time.