3/22/24, 3:34 PM Acquire Infrastructure: Botnet, Sub-technique T1583.005 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1583/005/ 1/1Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.
Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Acquire Infrastructure>Botnet
Acquire Infrastructure: Botnet
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1056 Pre-
compromiseThis technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on behaviors performed
outside of the scope of enterprise defenses and controls.
Detection
Much of this activity will take place outside the visibility of the target organization, making detection of this behavior diﬃcult. Detection
efforts may be focused on related stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Phishing, Endpoint Denial of Service, or Network Denial
of Service.
ReferencesAdversaries may buy, lease, or rent a network of compromised systems that can be used during targeting. A botnet is a network of
compromised systems that can be instructed to perform coordinated tasks. Adversaries may purchase a subscription to use an existing
botnet from a booter/stresser service. With a botnet at their disposal, adversaries may perform follow-on activity such as large-scale
Phishing or Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS).Other sub-techniques of Acquire Infrastructure (8)
[1]
[2][3][4][5]
Version PermalinkID: T1583.005
Sub-technique of:  T1583

Tactic: Resource Development

Platforms: PRE
Version: 1.0
Created: 01 October 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 15 April 2021
1. Norton. (n.d.). What is a botnet?. Retrieved October 4, 2020.
2. Imperva. (n.d.). Booters, Stressers and DDoSers. Retrieved
October 4, 2020.
3. Brian Krebs. (2017, January 18). Who is Anna-Senpai, the
Mirai Worm Author?. Retrieved May 15, 2017.4. Brian Krebs. (2016, October 31). Hackforums Shutters Booter
Service Bazaar. Retrieved May 15, 2017.
5. Brian Krebs. (2016, October 27). Are the Days of “Booter”
Services Numbered?. Retrieved May 15, 2017.