3/22/24, 3:32 PM Resource Development, Tactic TA0042 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0042/ 1/8Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Resource Development, Tactic TA0042 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0042/ 2/8Home>Tactics>Enterprise>Resource Development3/22/24, 3:32 PM Resource Development, Tactic TA0042 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0042/ 3/8Resource Development
Techniques
Techniques: 8The adversary is trying to establish resources they can use to support operations.
Resource Development consists of techniques that involve adversaries creating, purchasing, or compromising/stealing resources that can be
used to support targeting. Such resources include infrastructure, accounts, or capabilities. These resources can be leveraged by the
adversary to aid in other phases of the adversary lifecycle, such as using purchased domains to support Command and Control, email
accounts for phishing as a part of Initial Access, or stealing code signing certiﬁcates to help with Defense Evasion.
Version PermalinkID: TA0042
Created: 30 September 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 30 September 20203/22/24, 3:32 PM Resource Development, Tactic TA0042 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0042/ 4/8ID Name Description
T1650 Acquire AccessAdversaries may purchase or otherwise acquire an existing access to a target system or network. A
variety of online services and initial access broker networks are available to sell access to previously
compromised systems. In some cases, adversary groups may form partnerships to share compromised
systems with each other.
T1583 Acquire
InfrastructureAdversaries may buy, lease, or rent infrastructure that can be used during targeting. A wide variety of
infrastructure exists for hosting and orchestrating adversary operations. Infrastructure solutions include
physical or cloud servers, domains, and third-party web services. Additionally, botnets are available for
rent or purchase.
.001 Domains Adversaries may acquire domains that can be used during targeting. Domain names are the human
readable names used to represent one or more IP addresses. They can be purchased or, in some cases,
acquired for free.
.002 DNS Server Adversaries may set up their own Domain Name System (DNS) servers that can be used during targeting.
During post-compromise activity, adversaries may utilize DNS traﬃc for various tasks, including for
Command and Control (ex: Application Layer Protocol). Instead of hijacking existing DNS servers,
adversaries may opt to conﬁgure and run their own DNS servers in support of operations.
.003 Virtual Private
ServerAdversaries may rent Virtual Private Servers (VPSs) that can be used during targeting. There exist a
variety of cloud service providers that will sell virtual machines/containers as a service. By utilizing a
VPS, adversaries can make it diﬃcult to physically tie back operations to them. The use of cloud
infrastructure can also make it easier for adversaries to rapidly provision, modify, and shut down their
infrastructure.
.004 Server Adversaries may buy, lease, or rent physical servers that can be used during targeting. Use of servers
allows an adversary to stage, launch, and execute an operation. During post-compromise activity,
adversaries may utilize servers for various tasks, including for Command and Control. Adversaries may
use web servers to support support watering hole operations, as in Drive-by Compromise, or email servers
to support Phishing operations. Instead of compromising a third-party Server or renting a Virtual Private
Server, adversaries may opt to conﬁgure and run their own servers in support of operations.
.005 Botnet Adversaries may buy, lease, or rent a network of compromised systems that can be used during targeting.
A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be instructed to perform coordinated tasks.
Adversaries may purchase a subscription to use an existing botnet from a booter/stresser service. With a
botnet at their disposal, adversaries may perform follow-on activity such as large-scale Phishing or
Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS).
.006 Web Services Adversaries may register for web services that can be used during targeting. A variety of popular websites
exist for adversaries to register for a web-based service that can be abused during later stages of the
adversary lifecycle, such as during Command and Control (Web Service), Exﬁltration Over Web Service, or
Phishing. Using common services, such as those offered by Google or Twitter, makes it easier for
adversaries to hide in expected noise. By utilizing a web service, adversaries can make it diﬃcult to
physically tie back operations to them.
.007 Serverless Adversaries may purchase and conﬁgure serverless cloud infrastructure, such as Cloudﬂare Workers or
AWS Lambda functions, that can be used during targeting. By utilizing serverless infrastructure,
adversaries can make it more diﬃcult to attribute infrastructure used during operations back to them.
.008 Malvertising Adversaries may purchase online advertisements that can be abused to distribute malware to victims.
Ads can be purchased to plant as well as favorably position artifacts in speciﬁc locations online, such as
prominently placed within search engine results. These ads may make it more diﬃcult for users to
distinguish between actual search results and advertisements. Purchased ads may also target speciﬁc
audiences using the advertising network’s capabilities, potentially further taking advantage of the trust
inherently given to search engines and popular websites.
T1586 Compromise
AccountsAdversaries may compromise accounts with services that can be used during targeting. For operations
incorporating social engineering, the utilization of an online persona may be important. Rather than
creating and cultivating accounts (i.e. Establish Accounts), adversaries may compromise existing
accounts. Utilizing an existing persona may engender a level of trust in a potential victim if they have a
relationship, or knowledge of, the compromised persona.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Resource Development, Tactic TA0042 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0042/ 5/8ID Name Description
.001 Social Media
AccountsAdversaries may compromise social media accounts that can be used during targeting. For operations
incorporating social engineering, the utilization of an online persona may be important. Rather than
creating and cultivating social media proﬁles (i.e. Social Media Accounts), adversaries may compromise
existing social media accounts. Utilizing an existing persona may engender a level of trust in a potential
victim if they have a relationship, or knowledge of, the compromised persona.
.002 Email
AccountsAdversaries may compromise email accounts that can be used during targeting. Adversaries can use
compromised email accounts to further their operations, such as leveraging them to conduct Phishing for
Information, Phishing, or large-scale spam email campaigns. Utilizing an existing persona with a
compromised email account may engender a level of trust in a potential victim if they have a relationship
with, or knowledge of, the compromised persona. Compromised email accounts can also be used in the
acquisition of infrastructure (ex: Domains).
.003 Cloud
AccountsAdversaries may compromise cloud accounts that can be used during targeting. Adversaries can use
compromised cloud accounts to further their operations, including leveraging cloud storage services such
as Dropbox, Microsoft OneDrive, or AWS S3 buckets for Exﬁltration to Cloud Storage or to Upload Tools.
Cloud accounts can also be used in the acquisition of infrastructure, such as Virtual Private Servers or
Serverless infrastructure. Compromising cloud accounts may allow adversaries to develop sophisticated
capabilities without managing their own servers.
T1584 Compromise
InfrastructureAdversaries may compromise third-party infrastructure that can be used during targeting. Infrastructure
solutions include physical or cloud servers, domains, and third-party web and DNS services. Instead of
buying, leasing, or renting infrastructure an adversary may compromise infrastructure and use it during
other phases of the adversary lifecycle. Additionally, adversaries may compromise numerous machines to
form a botnet they can leverage.
.001 Domains Adversaries may hijack domains and/or subdomains that can be used during targeting. Domain
registration hijacking is the act of changing the registration of a domain name without the permission of
the original registrant. Adversaries may gain access to an email account for the person listed as the
owner of the domain. The adversary can then claim that they forgot their password in order to make
changes to the domain registration. Other possibilities include social engineering a domain registration
help desk to gain access to an account or taking advantage of renewal process gaps.
.002 DNS Server Adversaries may compromise third-party DNS servers that can be used during targeting. During post-
compromise activity, adversaries may utilize DNS traﬃc for various tasks, including for Command and
Control (ex: Application Layer Protocol). Instead of setting up their own DNS servers, adversaries may
compromise third-party DNS servers in support of operations.
.003 Virtual Private
ServerAdversaries may compromise third-party Virtual Private Servers (VPSs) that can be used during targeting.
There exist a variety of cloud service providers that will sell virtual machines/containers as a service.
Adversaries may compromise VPSs purchased by third-party entities. By compromising a VPS to use as
infrastructure, adversaries can make it diﬃcult to physically tie back operations to themselves.
.004 Server Adversaries may compromise third-party servers that can be used during targeting. Use of servers allows
an adversary to stage, launch, and execute an operation. During post-compromise activity, adversaries
may utilize servers for various tasks, including for Command and Control. Instead of purchasing a Server
or Virtual Private Server, adversaries may compromise third-party servers in support of operations.
.005 Botnet Adversaries may compromise numerous third-party systems to form a botnet that can be used during
targeting. A botnet is a network of compromised systems that can be instructed to perform coordinated
tasks. Instead of purchasing/renting a botnet from a booter/stresser service, adversaries may build their
own botnet by compromising numerous third-party systems. Adversaries may also conduct a takeover of
an existing botnet, such as redirecting bots to adversary-controlled C2 servers. With a botnet at their
disposal, adversaries may perform follow-on activity such as large-scale Phishing or Distributed Denial of
Service (DDoS).3/22/24, 3:32 PM Resource Development, Tactic TA0042 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0042/ 6/8ID Name Description
.006 Web Services Adversaries may compromise access to third-party web services that can be used during targeting. A
variety of popular websites exist for legitimate users to register for web-based services, such as GitHub,
Twitter, Dropbox, Google, SendGrid, etc. Adversaries may try to take ownership of a legitimate user's
access to a web service and use that web service as infrastructure in support of cyber operations. Such
web services can be abused during later stages of the adversary lifecycle, such as during Command and
Control (Web Service), Exﬁltration Over Web Service, or Phishing. Using common services, such as those
offered by Google or Twitter, makes it easier for adversaries to hide in expected noise. By utilizing a web
service, particularly when access is stolen from legitimate users, adversaries can make it diﬃcult to
physically tie back operations to them. Additionally, leveraging compromised web-based email services
may allow adversaries to leverage the trust associated with legitimate domains.
.007 Serverless Adversaries may compromise serverless cloud infrastructure, such as Cloudﬂare Workers or AWS Lambda
functions, that can be used during targeting. By utilizing serverless infrastructure, adversaries can make it
more diﬃcult to attribute infrastructure used during operations back to them.
T1587 Develop
CapabilitiesAdversaries may build capabilities that can be used during targeting. Rather than purchasing, freely
downloading, or stealing capabilities, adversaries may develop their own capabilities in-house. This is the
process of identifying development requirements and building solutions such as malware, exploits, and
self-signed certiﬁcates. Adversaries may develop capabilities to support their operations throughout
numerous phases of the adversary lifecycle.
.001 Malware Adversaries may develop malware and malware components that can be used during targeting. Building
malicious software can include the development of payloads, droppers, post-compromise tools,
backdoors (including backdoored images), packers, C2 protocols, and the creation of infected removable
media. Adversaries may develop malware to support their operations, creating a means for maintaining
control of remote machines, evading defenses, and executing post-compromise behaviors.
.002 Code Signing
CertiﬁcatesAdversaries may create self-signed code signing certiﬁcates that can be used during targeting. Code
signing is the process of digitally signing executables and scripts to conﬁrm the software author and
guarantee that the code has not been altered or corrupted. Code signing provides a level of authenticity
for a program from the developer and a guarantee that the program has not been tampered with. Users
and/or security tools may trust a signed piece of code more than an unsigned piece of code even if they
don't know who issued the certiﬁcate or who the author is.
.003 Digital
CertiﬁcatesAdversaries may create self-signed SSL/TLS certiﬁcates that can be used during targeting. SSL/TLS
certiﬁcates are designed to instill trust. They include information about the key, information about its
owner's identity, and the digital signature of an entity that has veriﬁed the certiﬁcate's contents are correct.
If the signature is valid, and the person examining the certiﬁcate trusts the signer, then they know they can
use that key to communicate with its owner. In the case of self-signing, digital certiﬁcates will lack the
element of trust associated with the signature of a third-party certiﬁcate authority (CA).
.004 Exploits Adversaries may develop exploits that can be used during targeting. An exploit takes advantage of a bug
or vulnerability in order to cause unintended or unanticipated behavior to occur on computer hardware or
software. Rather than ﬁnding/modifying exploits from online or purchasing them from exploit vendors, an
adversary may develop their own exploits. Adversaries may use information acquired via Vulnerabilities
to focus exploit development efforts. As part of the exploit development process, adversaries may
uncover exploitable vulnerabilities through methods such as fuzzing and patch analysis.
T1585 Establish
AccountsAdversaries may create and cultivate accounts with services that can be used during targeting.
Adversaries can create accounts that can be used to build a persona to further operations. Persona
development consists of the development of public information, presence, history and appropriate
aﬃliations. This development could be applied to social media, website, or other publicly available
information that could be referenced and scrutinized for legitimacy over the course of an operation using
that persona or identity.
.001 Social Media
AccountsAdversaries may create and cultivate social media accounts that can be used during targeting.
Adversaries can create social media accounts that can be used to build a persona to further operations.
Persona development consists of the development of public information, presence, history and
appropriate aﬃliations.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Resource Development, Tactic TA0042 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0042/ 7/8ID Name Description
.002 Email
AccountsAdversaries may create email accounts that can be used during targeting. Adversaries can use accounts
created with email providers to further their operations, such as leveraging them to conduct Phishing for
Information or Phishing. Adversaries may also take steps to cultivate a persona around the email
account, such as through use of Social Media Accounts, to increase the chance of success of follow-on
behaviors. Created email accounts can also be used in the acquisition of infrastructure (ex: Domains).
.003 Cloud
AccountsAdversaries may create accounts with cloud providers that can be used during targeting. Adversaries can
use cloud accounts to further their operations, including leveraging cloud storage services such as
Dropbox, MEGA, Microsoft OneDrive, or AWS S3 buckets for Exﬁltration to Cloud Storage or to Upload
Tools. Cloud accounts can also be used in the acquisition of infrastructure, such as Virtual Private
Servers or Serverless infrastructure. Establishing cloud accounts may allow adversaries to develop
sophisticated capabilities without managing their own servers.
T1588 Obtain
CapabilitiesAdversaries may buy and/or steal capabilities that can be used during targeting. Rather than developing
their own capabilities in-house, adversaries may purchase, freely download, or steal them. Activities may
include the acquisition of malware, software (including licenses), exploits, certiﬁcates, and information
relating to vulnerabilities. Adversaries may obtain capabilities to support their operations throughout
numerous phases of the adversary lifecycle.
.001 Malware Adversaries may buy, steal, or download malware that can be used during targeting. Malicious software
can include payloads, droppers, post-compromise tools, backdoors, packers, and C2 protocols.
Adversaries may acquire malware to support their operations, obtaining a means for maintaining control
of remote machines, evading defenses, and executing post-compromise behaviors.
.002 Tool Adversaries may buy, steal, or download software tools that can be used during targeting. Tools can be
open or closed source, free or commercial. A tool can be used for malicious purposes by an adversary, but
(unlike malware) were not intended to be used for those purposes (ex: PsExec). Tool acquisition can
involve the procurement of commercial software licenses, including for red teaming tools such as Cobalt
Strike. Commercial software may be obtained through purchase, stealing licenses (or licensed copies of
the software), or cracking trial versions.
.003 Code Signing
CertiﬁcatesAdversaries may buy and/or steal code signing certiﬁcates that can be used during targeting. Code
signing is the process of digitally signing executables and scripts to conﬁrm the software author and
guarantee that the code has not been altered or corrupted. Code signing provides a level of authenticity
for a program from the developer and a guarantee that the program has not been tampered with. Users
and/or security tools may trust a signed piece of code more than an unsigned piece of code even if they
don't know who issued the certiﬁcate or who the author is.
.004 Digital
CertiﬁcatesAdversaries may buy and/or steal SSL/TLS certiﬁcates that can be used during targeting. SSL/TLS
certiﬁcates are designed to instill trust. They include information about the key, information about its
owner's identity, and the digital signature of an entity that has veriﬁed the certiﬁcate's contents are correct.
If the signature is valid, and the person examining the certiﬁcate trusts the signer, then they know they can
use that key to communicate with its owner.
.005 Exploits Adversaries may buy, steal, or download exploits that can be used during targeting. An exploit takes
advantage of a bug or vulnerability in order to cause unintended or unanticipated behavior to occur on
computer hardware or software. Rather than developing their own exploits, an adversary may ﬁnd/modify
exploits from online or purchase them from exploit vendors.
.006 Vulnerabilities Adversaries may acquire information about vulnerabilities that can be used during targeting. A
vulnerability is a weakness in computer hardware or software that can, potentially, be exploited by an
adversary to cause unintended or unanticipated behavior to occur. Adversaries may ﬁnd vulnerability
information by searching open databases or gaining access to closed vulnerability databases.
T1608 Stage
CapabilitiesAdversaries may upload, install, or otherwise set up capabilities that can be used during targeting. To
support their operations, an adversary may need to take capabilities they developed (Develop
Capabilities) or obtained (Obtain Capabilities) and stage them on infrastructure under their control. These
capabilities may be staged on infrastructure that was previously purchased/rented by the adversary
(Acquire Infrastructure) or was otherwise compromised by them (Compromise Infrastructure). Capabilities
may also be staged on web services, such as GitHub or Pastebin, or on Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS)
offerings that enable users to easily provision applications.3/22/24, 3:32 PM Resource Development, Tactic TA0042 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0042/ 8/8ID Name Description
.001 Upload
MalwareAdversaries may upload malware to third-party or adversary controlled infrastructure to make it
accessible during targeting. Malicious software can include payloads, droppers, post-compromise tools,
backdoors, and a variety of other malicious content. Adversaries may upload malware to support their
operations, such as making a payload available to a victim network to enable Ingress Tool Transfer by
placing it on an Internet accessible web server.
.002 Upload Tool Adversaries may upload tools to third-party or adversary controlled infrastructure to make it accessible
during targeting. Tools can be open or closed source, free or commercial. Tools can be used for malicious
purposes by an adversary, but (unlike malware) were not intended to be used for those purposes (ex:
PsExec). Adversaries may upload tools to support their operations, such as making a tool available to a
victim network to enable Ingress Tool Transfer by placing it on an Internet accessible web server.
.003 Install Digital
CertiﬁcateAdversaries may install SSL/TLS certiﬁcates that can be used during targeting. SSL/TLS certiﬁcates are
ﬁles that can be installed on servers to enable secure communications between systems. Digital
certiﬁcates include information about the key, information about its owner's identity, and the digital
signature of an entity that has veriﬁed the certiﬁcate's contents are correct. If the signature is valid, and
the person examining the certiﬁcate trusts the signer, then they know they can use that key to
communicate securely with its owner. Certiﬁcates can be uploaded to a server, then the server can be
conﬁgured to use the certiﬁcate to enable encrypted communication with it.
.004 Drive-by TargetAdversaries may prepare an operational environment to infect systems that visit a website over the
normal course of browsing. Endpoint systems may be compromised through browsing to adversary
controlled sites, as in Drive-by Compromise. In such cases, the user's web browser is typically targeted for
exploitation (often not requiring any extra user interaction once landing on the site), but adversaries may
also set up websites for non-exploitation behavior such as Application Access Token. Prior to Drive-by
Compromise, adversaries must stage resources needed to deliver that exploit to users who browse to an
adversary controlled site. Drive-by content can be staged on adversary controlled infrastructure that has
been acquired (Acquire Infrastructure) or previously compromised (Compromise Infrastructure).
.005 Link Target Adversaries may put in place resources that are referenced by a link that can be used during targeting. An
adversary may rely upon a user clicking a malicious link in order to divulge information (including
credentials) or to gain execution, as in Malicious Link. Links can be used for spearphishing, such as
sending an email accompanied by social engineering text to coax the user to actively click or copy and
paste a URL into a browser. Prior to a phish for information (as in Spearphishing Link) or a phish to gain
initial access to a system (as in Spearphishing Link), an adversary must set up the resources for a link
target for the spearphishing link.
.006 SEO Poisoning Adversaries may poison mechanisms that inﬂuence search engine optimization (SEO) to further lure
staged capabilities towards potential victims. Search engines typically display results to users based on
purchased ads as well as the site’s ranking/score/reputation calculated by their web crawlers and
algorithms.