3/22/24, 3:51 PM Data Encoding: Non-Standard Encoding, Sub-technique T1132.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1132/002/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:51 PM Data Encoding: Non-Standard Encoding, Sub-technique T1132.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1132/002/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Data Encoding>Non-Standard Encoding3/22/24, 3:51 PM Data Encoding: Non-Standard Encoding, Sub-technique T1132.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1132/002/ 3/4Data Encoding: Non-Standard Encoding
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
S0031 BACKSPACE Newer variants of BACKSPACE will encode C2 communications with a custom system.
S0239 Bankshot Bankshot encodes commands from the control server using a range of characters and gzip.
S0687 Cyclops
BlinkCyclops Blink can use a custom binary scheme to encode messages with speciﬁc commands and parameters
to be executed.
S0260 InvisiMole InvisiMole can use a modiﬁed base32 encoding to encode data within the subdomain of C2 requests.
S1090 NightClub NightClub has used a non-standard encoding in DNS tunneling removing any = from the result of base64
encoding, and replacing / characters with -s and + characters with -p.
S0346 OceanSalt OceanSalt can encode data with a NOT operation before sending the data to the control server.
S1046 PowGoop PowGoop can use a modiﬁed Base64 encoding mechanism to send data to and from the C2 server.
S0495 RDAT RDAT can communicate with the C2 via subdomains that utilize base64 with character substitutions.
S0596 ShadowPad ShadowPad has encoded data as readable Latin characters.
S1035 Small Sieve Small Sieve can use a custom hex byte swapping encoding scheme to obfuscate tasking traﬃc.
S0022 Uroburos Uroburos can use a custom base62 and a de-facto base32 encoding that uses digits 0-9 and lowercase letters
a-z in C2 communications.Adversaries may encode data with a non-standard data encoding system to make the content of command and control traﬃc more diﬃcult
to detect. Command and control (C2) information can be encoded using a non-standard data encoding system that diverges from existing
protocol speciﬁcations. Non-standard data encoding schemes may be based on or related to standard data encoding schemes, such as a
modiﬁed Base64 encoding for the message body of an HTTP request. Other sub-techniques of Data Encoding (2)
[1][2]
Version PermalinkID: T1132.002
Sub-technique of:  T1132

Tactic: Command and Control

Platforms: Linux, Windows, macOS

Permissions Required: User
Version: 1.0
Created: 14 March 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 14 March 2020
[3]
[4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
[10]
[11]
[12][13]
[14]3/22/24, 3:51 PM Data Encoding: Non-Standard Encoding, Sub-technique T1132.002 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1132/002/ 4/4Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1031 Network
Intrusion
PreventionNetwork intrusion detection and prevention systems that use network signatures to identify traﬃc for
speciﬁc adversary malware can be used to mitigate activity at the network level. Signatures are often for
unique indicators within protocols and may be based on the speciﬁc obfuscation technique used by a
particular adversary or tool, and will likely be different across various malware families and versions.
Adversaries will likely change tool C2 signatures over time or construct protocols in such a way as to avoid
detection by common defensive tools.
Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0029 Network TraﬃcNetwork Traﬃc
ContentMonitor for network data for uncommon data ﬂows (e.g., a client sending signiﬁcantly
more data than it receives from a server). Processes utilizing the network that do not
normally have network communication or have never been seen before are suspicious.
Analyze packet contents to detect communications that do not follow the expected
protocol behavior for the port that is being used.
References
1. Wikipedia. (2016, December 26). Binary-to-text encoding.
Retrieved March 1, 2017.
2. Wikipedia. (2017, February 19). Character Encoding. Retrieved
March 1, 2017.
3. FireEye Labs. (2015, April). APT30 AND THE MECHANICS OF
A LONG-RUNNING CYBER ESPIONAGE OPERATION. Retrieved
May 1, 2015.
4. Sherstobitoff, R. (2018, March 08). Hidden Cobra Targets
Turkish Financial Sector With New Bankshot Implant.
Retrieved May 18, 2018.
5. NCSC. (2022, February 23). Cyclops Blink Malware Analysis
Report. Retrieved March 3, 2022.
. Hromcova, Z. and Cherpanov, A. (2020, June). INVISIMOLE:
THE HIDDEN PART OF THE STORY. Retrieved July 16, 2020.
7. Faou, M. (2023, August 10). MoustachedBouncer: Espionage
against foreign diplomats in Belarus. Retrieved September 25,
2023.. Sherstobitoff, R., Malhotra, A. (2018, October 18). ‘Operation
Oceansalt’ Attacks South Korea, U.S., and Canada With Source
Code From Chinese Hacker Group. Retrieved November 30,
2018.
9. Cyber National Mission Force. (2022, January 12). Iranian
intel cyber suite of malware uses open source tools. Retrieved
September 30, 2022.
10. Falcone, R. (2020, July 22). OilRig Targets Middle Eastern
Telecommunications Organization and Adds Novel C2
Channel with Steganography to Its Inventory. Retrieved July
28, 2020.
11. GReAT. (2017, August 15). ShadowPad in corporate networks.
Retrieved March 22, 2021.
12. FBI, CISA, CNMF, NCSC-UK. (2022, February 24). Iranian
Government-Sponsored Actors Conduct Cyber Operations
Against Global Government and Commercial Networks.
Retrieved September 27, 2022.
13. NCSC GCHQ. (2022, January 27). Small Sieve Malware
Analysis Report. Retrieved August 22, 2022.
14. FBI et al. (2023, May 9). Hunting Russian Intelligence “Snake”
Malware. Retrieved June 8, 2023.