3/22/24, 3:35 PM Obtain Capabilities: Digital Certiﬁcates, Sub-technique T1588.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1588/004/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/22/24, 3:35 PM Obtain Capabilities: Digital Certiﬁcates, Sub-technique T1588.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1588/004/ 2/4Home>Techniques>Enterprise>Obtain Capabilities>Digital Certiﬁcates3/22/24, 3:35 PM Obtain Capabilities: Digital Certiﬁcates, Sub-technique T1588.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1588/004/ 3/4Obtain Capabilities: Digital Certiﬁcates
Procedure Examples
ID Name Description
G0098 BlackTech BlackTech has used valid, stolen digital certiﬁcates for some of their malware and tools.
G0032 Lazarus Group Lazarus Group has obtained SSL certiﬁcates for their C2 domains.
G1014 LuminousMoth LuminousMoth has used a valid digital certiﬁcate for some of their malware.
C0006 Operation
HoneybeeFor Operation Honeybee, the threat actors stole a digital signature from Adobe Systems to use with their
MaoCheng dropper.
G0122 Silent Librarian Silent Librarian has obtained free Let's Encrypt SSL certiﬁcates for use on their phishing pages.
Mitigations
ID Mitigation Description
M1056 Pre-
compromiseThis technique cannot be easily mitigated with preventive controls since it is based on behaviors performed
outside of the scope of enterprise defenses and controls.Adversaries may buy and/or steal SSL/TLS certiﬁcates that can be used during targeting. SSL/TLS certiﬁcates are designed to instill trust.
They include information about the key, information about its owner's identity, and the digital signature of an entity that has veriﬁed the
certiﬁcate's contents are correct. If the signature is valid, and the person examining the certiﬁcate trusts the signer, then they know they can
use that key to communicate with its owner.
Adversaries may purchase or steal SSL/TLS certiﬁcates to further their operations, such as encrypting C2 traﬃc (ex: Asymmetric
Cryptography with Web Protocols) or even enabling Adversary-in-the-Middle if the certiﬁcate is trusted or otherwise added to the root of trust
(i.e. Install Root Certiﬁcate). The purchase of digital certiﬁcates may be done using a front organization or using information stolen from a
previously compromised entity that allows the adversary to validate to a certiﬁcate provider as that entity. Adversaries may also steal
certiﬁcate materials directly from a compromised third-party, including from certiﬁcate authorities. Adversaries may register or hijack
domains that they will later purchase an SSL/TLS certiﬁcate for.
Certiﬁcate authorities exist that allow adversaries to acquire SSL/TLS certiﬁcates, such as domain validation certiﬁcates, for free.
After obtaining a digital certiﬁcate, an adversary may then install that certiﬁcate (see Install Digital Certiﬁcate) on infrastructure under their
control.Other sub-techniques of Obtain Capabilities (6)
[1]
[2]
Version PermalinkID: T1588.004
Sub-technique of:  T1588

Tactic: Resource Development

Platforms: PRE
Version: 1.2
Created: 01 October 2020
Last Modiﬁed: 16 October 2021
[3]
[4]
[5]
[6]
[7][8]3/22/24, 3:35 PM Obtain Capabilities: Digital Certiﬁcates, Sub-technique T1588.004 - Enterprise | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/techniques/T1588/004/ 4/4Detection
ID Data Source Data Component Detects
DS0037 Certiﬁcate Certiﬁcate
RegistrationConsider use of services that may aid in the tracking of newly issued certiﬁcates and/or
certiﬁcates in use on sites across the Internet. In some cases it may be possible to pivot on
known pieces of certiﬁcate information to uncover other adversary infrastructure. Some
server-side components of adversary tools may have default values set for SSL/TLS
certiﬁcates.
DS0035 Internet Scan Response
ContentMonitor for logged network traﬃc in response to a scan showing both protocol header and
body values that may buy and/or steal SSL/TLS certiﬁcates that can be used during
targeting. Detection efforts may be focused on related behaviors, such as Web Protocols,
Asymmetric Cryptography, and/or Install Root Certiﬁcate.
References[9]
[10]
1. Fisher, D. (2012, October 31). Final Report on DigiNotar Hack
Shows Total Compromise of CA Servers. Retrieved March 6,
2017.
2. Let's Encrypt. (2020, April 23). Let's Encrypt FAQ. Retrieved
October 15, 2020.
3. Cherepanov, A.. (2018, July 9). Certiﬁcates stolen from
Taiwanese tech‑companies misused in Plead malware
campaign. Retrieved May 6, 2020.
4. Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency. (2021,
February 21). AppleJeus: Analysis of North Korea’s
Cryptocurrency Malware. Retrieved March 1, 2021.
5. Lechtik, M, and etl. (2021, July 14). LuminousMoth APT:
Sweeping attacks for the chosen few. Retrieved October 20,
2022.. Sherstobitoff, R. (2018, March 02). McAfee Uncovers
Operation Honeybee, a Malicious Document Campaign
Targeting Humanitarian Aid Groups. Retrieved May 16, 2018.
7. Hassold, Crane. (2018, March 26). Silent Librarian: More to the
Story of the Iranian Mabna Institute Indictment. Retrieved
February 3, 2021.
. Counter Threat Unit Research Team. (2019, September 11).
COBALT DICKENS Goes Back to School…Again. Retrieved
February 3, 2021.
9. Kovar, R. (2017, December 11). Tall Tales of Hunting with
TLS/SSL Certiﬁcates. Retrieved October 16, 2020.
10. Insikt Group. (2019, June 18). A Multi-Method Approach to
Identifying Rogue Cobalt Strike Servers. Retrieved October 16,
2020.