3/22/24, 2:24 PM Phishing: Spearphishing via Social Engineering LLM | MITRE ATLAS™
https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0052.000/ 1/2Home Techniques Phishing
Phishing: Spearphishing via
Social Engineering LLM󰅂 󰅂 󰅂
Spearphishing Via Social Engineering LLM 󰅂
Summary
Adversaries may turn LLMs into targeted social engineers. LLMs are capable of
interacting with users via text conversations. They can be instructed by an
adversary to seek sensitive information from a user and act as ef fective social
engineers. They can be targeted towards particular personas defined by the
adversary . This allows adversaries to scale spearphishing ef forts and target
individuals to reveal private information such as credentials to privileged systems.
ID: AML.T0052.000
Case Study: Indirect Prompt Injection Threats: Bing Chat Data Pirate
Parent Technique: Phishing
Tactics: Initial Access
Case Study 󰅃
Indirect Prompt Injection Threats: Bing Chat Data Pirate
Parent Technique󰅃󰍜 󰇙3/22/24, 2:24 PM Phishing: Spearphishing via Social Engineering LLM | MITRE ATLAS™
https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0052.000/ 2/2Phishing
Tactics󰅃
Initial Access
Join our collaborative community
to shape future tool and
framework developments in AI
security , threat mitigation, bias,
privacy and other critical aspects
of AI assurance.www .mitre.org
© 2021-2024 The MITRE Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Approved for Public Release; Distribution Unlimited. Case Number 21-2363.
MITRE ATLAS™ and MITRE ATT&CK are a trademark and registered trademark of The MITRE
Corporation.
Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Manage CookiesCONNECT WITH US
󰅂
®󰍜 󰇙