3/22/24, 2:25 PM User Execution: Unsafe ML Artifacts | MITRE ATLAS™
https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0011.000/ 1/3Home Techniques User Execution
User Execution: Unsafe ML
Artifacts󰅂 󰅂 󰅂
Unsafe ML Artifacts 󰅂
Summary
Adversaries may develop unsafe ML artifacts that when executed have a
deleterious ef fect. The adversary can use this technique to establish persistent
access to systems. These models may be introduced via a ML Supply Chain
Compromise .
Serialization of models is a popular technique for model storage, transfer , and
loading. However , this format without proper checking presents an opportunity for
code execution.
ID: AML.T0011.000
Number of Mitigations: 5
Parent Technique: User Execution
Tactics: Execution
Mitigations 󰅃
Restrict Library Loading
Code Signing󰍜 󰇙3/22/24, 2:25 PM User Execution: Unsafe ML Artifacts | MITRE ATLAS™
https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0011.000/ 2/3Verify ML Artifacts
Vulnerability Scanning
User Training
Parent Technique󰅃
User Execution
Tactics󰅃
Execution󰍜 󰇙3/22/24, 2:25 PM User Execution: Unsafe ML Artifacts | MITRE ATLAS™
https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0011.000/ 3/3Join our collaborative community
to shape future tool and
framework developments in AI
security , threat mitigation, bias,
privacy and other critical aspects
of AI assurance.www .mitre.org
© 2021-2024 The MITRE Corporation. All Rights Reserved.
Approved for Public Release; Distribution Unlimited. Case Number 21-2363.
MITRE ATLAS™ and MITRE ATT&CK are a trademark and registered trademark of The MITRE
Corporation.
Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Manage CookiesCONNECT WITH US
󰅂
®󰍜 󰇙