3/7/24, 3:57 PM ML Supply Chain Compromise: Data | MITRE ATLAS™
https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0010.002/ 1/2Home Techniques ML Supply Chain Compromise Data
ML Supply Chain Compromise:
Data
Summary󰅂 󰅂 󰅂
Data is a key vector of supply chain compromise for
adversaries. Every machine learning project will require
some form of data. Many rely on large open source
datasets that are publicly available. An adversary could rely
on compromising these sources of data. The malicious
data could be a result of Poison Training Data or include
traditional malware.
An adversary can also target private datasets in the labeling
phase. The creation of private datasets will often require the
hiring of outside labeling services. An adversary can poison
a dataset by modifying the labels being generated by the
labeling service.ID: AML.T0010.002
Case Studies: VirusTotal
Poisoning , Tay Poisoning
Mitigations: Control Access
to ML Models and Data at
Rest , Sanitize Training Data
Other Subtechniques: ML
Supply Chain Compromise:
GPU Hardware , ML Supply
Chain Compromise: ML
Software , ML Supply Chain
Compromise: Model
Parent Technique: ML
Supply Chain Compromise
Tactics: Initial Access
Case Studies󰅀
VirusTotal Poisoning
Tay Poisoning󰍜 Matrices Navigator Tactics Techniques Mitigations Case Studies󰍝
This website utilizes technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality , as well as
for analytics, personalization, and targeted advertising purposes. To learn more, view the following
link: Privacy Policy
Manage Preferences3/7/24, 3:57 PM ML Supply Chain Compromise: Data | MITRE ATLAS™
https://atlas.mitre.org/techniques/AML.T0010.002/ 2/2Mitigations
󰅀
Control Access to ML Models and Data at Rest
Sanitize Training Data
Other Subtechniques󰅀
ML Supply Chain Compromise: GPU Hardware
ML Supply Chain Compromise: ML Software
ML Supply Chain Compromise: Model
Parent Technique󰅀
ML Supply Chain Compromise
Tactics󰅀
Initial Access
MITRE ATLAS™ and MITRE ATT&CK are a trademark and registered
trademark of The MITRE Corporation.®
PRIVACY POLICY TERMS OF USE MANAGE COOKIESCONTACT󰍜 Matrices Navigator Tactics Techniques Mitigations Case Studies󰍝
This website utilizes technologies such as cookies to enable essential site functionality , as well as
for analytics, personalization, and targeted advertising purposes. To learn more, view the following
link: Privacy Policy