3/24/24, 10:45 AM Lateral Movement, Tactic TA0109 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0109/ 1/3Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/24/24, 10:45 AM Lateral Movement, Tactic TA0109 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0109/ 2/3Home>Tactics>ICS>Lateral Movement3/24/24, 10:45 AM Lateral Movement, Tactic TA0109 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0109/ 3/3Lateral Movement
Techniques
Techniques: 7
ID Name Description
T0812 Default
CredentialsAdversaries may leverage manufacturer or supplier set default credentials on control system devices. These
default credentials may have administrative permissions and may be necessary for initial conﬁguration of the
device. It is general best practice to change the passwords for these accounts as soon as possible, but some
manufacturers may have devices that have passwords or usernames that cannot be changed.
T0866 Exploitation
of Remote
ServicesAdversaries may exploit a software vulnerability to take advantage of a programming error in a program,
service, or within the operating system software or kernel itself to enable remote service abuse. A common
goal for post-compromise exploitation of remote services is for initial access into and lateral movement
throughout the ICS environment to enable access to targeted systems.
T0891 Hardcoded
CredentialsAdversaries may leverage credentials that are hardcoded in software or ﬁrmware to gain an unauthorized
interactive user session to an asset. Examples credentials that may be hardcoded in an asset include:
T0867 Lateral Tool
TransferAdversaries may transfer tools or other ﬁles from one system to another to stage adversary tools or other ﬁles
over the course of an operation. Copying of ﬁles may also be performed laterally between internal victim
systems to support Lateral Movement with remote Execution using inherent ﬁle sharing protocols such as ﬁle
sharing over SMB to connected network shares.
T0843 Program
DownloadAdversaries may perform a program download to transfer a user program to a controller.
T0886 Remote
ServicesAdversaries may leverage remote services to move between assets and network segments. These services are
often used to allow operators to interact with systems remotely within the network, some examples are RDP,
SMB, SSH, and other similar mechanisms.
T0859 Valid
AccountsAdversaries may steal the credentials of a speciﬁc user or service account using credential access techniques.
In some cases, default credentials for control system devices may be publicly available. Compromised
credentials may be used to bypass access controls placed on various resources on hosts and within the
network, and may even be used for persistent access to remote systems. Compromised and default
credentials may also grant an adversary increased privilege to speciﬁc systems and devices or access to
restricted areas of the network. Adversaries may choose not to use malware or tools, in conjunction with the
legitimate access those credentials provide, to make it harder to detect their presence or to control devices and
send legitimate commands in an unintended way.The adversary is trying to move through your ICS environment.
Lateral Movement consists of techniques that adversaries use to enter and control remote systems on a network. These techniques abuse
default credentials, known accounts, and vulnerable services, and may also leverage dual-homed devices and systems that reside on both
the IT and OT networks. The adversary uses these techniques to pivot to their next point in the environment, positioning themselves to where
they want to be or think they should be. Following through on their primary objective often requires Discovery of the network and Collection
to develop awareness of unique ICS devices and processes, in order to ﬁnd their target and subsequently gain access to it. Reaching this
objective often involves pivoting through multiple systems, devices, and accounts. Adversaries may install their own remote tools to
accomplish Lateral Movement or leverage default tools, programs, and manufacturer set or other legitimate credentials native to the
network, which may be stealthier.
Version PermalinkID: TA0109
Created: 17 October 2018
Last Modiﬁed: 08 March 2023