3/24/24, 10:45 AM Evasion, Tactic TA0103 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0103/ 1/1Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.
Home>Tactics>ICS>Evasion
E v a s i o n
T e c h n i q u e s
Techniques: 6
ID Name Description
T0858 Change
Operating ModeAdversaries may change the operating mode of a controller to gain additional access to engineering
functions such as Program Download. Programmable controllers typically have several modes of operation
that control the state of the user program and control access to the controllers API. Operating modes can be
physically selected using a key switch on the face of the controller but may also be selected with calls to the
controllers API. Operating modes and the mechanisms by which they are selected often vary by vendor and
product line. Some commonly implemented operating modes are described below:
T0820 Exploitation for
EvasionAdversaries may exploit a software vulnerability to take advantage of a programming error in a program,
service, or within the operating system software or kernel itself to evade detection. Vulnerabilities may exist
in software that can be used to disable or circumvent security features.
T0872 Indicator
Removal on
HostAdversaries may attempt to remove indicators of their presence on a system in an effort to cover their
tracks. In cases where an adversary may feel detection is imminent, they may try to overwrite, delete, or
cover up changes they have made to the device.
T0849 Masquerading Adversaries may use masquerading to disguise a malicious application or executable as another ﬁle, to
avoid operator and engineer suspicion. Possible disguises of these masquerading ﬁles can include
commonly found programs, expected vendor executables and conﬁguration ﬁles, and other commonplace
application and naming conventions. By impersonating expected and vendor-relevant ﬁles and applications,
operators and engineers may not notice the presence of the underlying malicious content and possibly end
up running those masquerading as legitimate functions.
T0851 Rootkit Adversaries may deploy rootkits to hide the presence of programs, ﬁles, network connections, services,
drivers, and other system components. Rootkits are programs that hide the existence of malware by
intercepting and modifying operating-system API calls that supply system information. Rootkits or rootkit-
enabling functionality may reside at the user or kernel level in the operating system, or lower.
T0856 Spoof Reporting
MessageAdversaries may spoof reporting messages in control system environments for evasion and to impair
process control. In control systems, reporting messages contain telemetry data (e.g., I/O values) pertaining
to the current state of equipment and the industrial process. Reporting messages are important for
monitoring the normal operation of a system or identifying important events such as deviations from
expected values.The adversary is trying to avoid security defenses.
Evasion consists of techniques that adversaries use to avoid technical defenses throughout their campaign. Techniques used for evasion
include removal of indicators of compromise, spooﬁng communications, and exploiting software vulnerabilities. Adversaries may also
leverage and abuse trusted devices and processes to hide their activity, possibly by masquerading as master devices or native software.
Methods of defense evasion for this purpose are often more passive in nature.
Version PermalinkID: TA0103
Created: 17 October 2018
Last Modiﬁed: 09 March 2023