3/24/24, 10:45 AM Impact, Tactic TA0105 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0105/ 1/4Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.3/24/24, 10:45 AM Impact, Tactic TA0105 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0105/ 2/4Home>Tactics>ICS>Impact3/24/24, 10:45 AM Impact, Tactic TA0105 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0105/ 3/4I m p a c t
T e c h n i q u e s
Techniques: 12The adversary is trying to manipulate, interrupt, or destroy your ICS systems, data, and their surrounding environment.
Impact consists of techniques that adversaries use to disrupt, compromise, destroy, and manipulate the integrity and availability of control
system operations, processes, devices, and data. These techniques encompass the inﬂuence and effects resulting from adversarial efforts to
attack the ICS environment or that tangentially impact it. Impact techniques can result in more instantaneous disruption to control processes
and the operator, or may result in more long term damage or loss to the ICS environment and related operations. The adversary may leverage
Impair Process Control techniques, which often manifest in more self-revealing impacts on operations, or Impair Process Control techniques
to hinder safeguards and alarms in order to follow through with and provide cover for Impact. In some scenarios, control system processes
can appear to function as expected, but may have been altered to beneﬁt the adversary’s goal over the course of a longer duration. These
techniques might be used by adversaries to follow through on their end goal or to provide cover for a conﬁdentiality breach.
Loss of Productivity and Revenue, Theft of Operational Information, and Damage to Property are meant to encompass some of the more
granular goals of adversaries in targeted and untargeted attacks. These techniques in and of themselves are not necessarily detectable, but
the associated adversary behavior can potentially be mitigated and/or detected.
Version PermalinkID: TA0105
Created: 14 March 2019
Last Modiﬁed: 08 March 20233/24/24, 10:45 AM Impact, Tactic TA0105 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0105/ 4/4ID Name Description
T0879 Damage to
PropertyAdversaries may cause damage and destruction of property to infrastructure, equipment, and the
surrounding environment when attacking control systems. This technique may result in device and
operational equipment breakdown, or represent tangential damage from other techniques used in an attack.
Depending on the severity of physical damage and disruption caused to control processes and systems, this
technique may result in Loss of Safety. Operations that result in Loss of Control may also cause damage to
property, which may be directly or indirectly motivated by an adversary seeking to cause impact in the form
of Loss of Productivity and Revenue.
T0813 Denial of
ControlAdversaries may cause a denial of control to temporarily prevent operators and engineers from interacting
with process controls. An adversary may attempt to deny process control access to cause a temporary loss
of communication with the control device or to prevent operator adjustment of process controls. An affected
process may still be operating during the period of control loss, but not necessarily in a desired state.
T0815 Denial of View Adversaries may cause a denial of view in attempt to disrupt and prevent operator oversight on the status of
an ICS environment. This may manifest itself as a temporary communication failure between a device and
its control source, where the interface recovers and becomes available once the interference ceases.
T0826 Loss of
AvailabilityAdversaries may attempt to disrupt essential components or systems to prevent owner and operator from
delivering products or services.
T0827 Loss of Control Adversaries may seek to achieve a sustained loss of control or a runaway condition in which operators
cannot issue any commands even if the malicious interference has subsided.
T0828 Loss of
Productivity
and RevenueAdversaries may cause loss of productivity and revenue through disruption and even damage to the
availability and integrity of control system operations, devices, and related processes. This technique may
manifest as a direct effect of an ICS-targeting attack or tangentially, due to an IT-targeting attack against
non-segregated environments.
T0837 Loss of
ProtectionAdversaries may compromise protective system functions designed to prevent the effects of faults and
abnormal conditions. This can result in equipment damage, prolonged process disruptions and hazards to
personnel.
T0880 Loss of Safety Adversaries may compromise safety system functions designed to maintain safe operation of a process
when unacceptable or dangerous conditions occur. Safety systems are often composed of the same
elements as control systems but have the sole purpose of ensuring the process fails in a predetermined safe
manner.
T0829 Loss of View Adversaries may cause a sustained or permanent loss of view where the ICS equipment will require local,
hands-on operator intervention; for instance, a restart or manual operation. By causing a sustained reporting
or visibility loss, the adversary can effectively hide the present state of operations. This loss of view can
occur without affecting the physical processes themselves.
T0831 Manipulation of
ControlAdversaries may manipulate physical process control within the industrial environment. Methods of
manipulating control can include changes to set point values, tags, or other parameters. Adversaries may
manipulate control systems devices or possibly leverage their own, to communicate with and command
physical control processes. The duration of manipulation may be temporary or longer sustained, depending
on operator detection.
T0832 Manipulation of
ViewAdversaries may attempt to manipulate the information reported back to operators or controllers. This
manipulation may be short term or sustained. During this time the process itself could be in a much different
state than what is reported.
T0882 Theft of
Operational
InformationAdversaries may steal operational information on a production environment as a direct mission outcome for
personal gain or to inform future operations. This information may include design documents, schedules,
rotational data, or similar artifacts that provide insight on operations. In the Bowman Dam incident,
adversaries probed systems for operational data.