3/24/24, 10:45 AM Discovery, Tactic TA0102 - ICS | MITRE ATT&CK®
https://attack.mitre.org/tactics/TA0102/ 1/1Thank you to Tidal Cyber and SOC Prime for becoming ATT&CK's ﬁrst Benefactors. To join the cohort, or learn more about this program visit our
Benefactors page.
Home>Tactics>ICS>Discovery
D i s c o v e r y
T e c h n i q u e s
Techniques: 5
ID Name Description
T0840 Network
Connection
EnumerationAdversaries may perform network connection enumeration to discover information about device
communication patterns. If an adversary can inspect the state of a network connection with tools, such as
Netstat, in conjunction with System Firmware, then they can determine the role of certain devices on the
network . The adversary can also use Network Sniﬃng to watch network traﬃc for details about the source,
destination, protocol, and content.
T0842 Network
SniﬃngNetwork sniﬃng is the practice of using a network interface on a computer system to monitor or capture
information regardless of whether it is the speciﬁed destination for the information.
T0846 Remote System
DiscoveryAdversaries may attempt to get a listing of other systems by IP address, hostname, or other logical identiﬁer
on a network that may be used for subsequent Lateral Movement or Discovery techniques. Functionality
could exist within adversary tools to enable this, but utilities available on the operating system or vendor
software could also be used.
T0888 Remote System
Information
DiscoveryAn adversary may attempt to get detailed information about remote systems and their peripherals, such as
make/model, role, and conﬁguration. Adversaries may use information from Remote System Information
Discovery to aid in targeting and shaping follow-on behaviors. For example, the system's operational role
and model information can dictate whether it is a relevant target for the adversary's operational objectives. In
addition, the system's conﬁguration may be used to scope subsequent technique usage.
T0887 Wireless
SniﬃngAdversaries may seek to capture radio frequency (RF) communication used for remote control and reporting
in distributed environments. RF communication frequencies vary between 3 kHz to 300 GHz, although are
commonly between 300 MHz to 6 GHz. The wavelength and frequency of the signal affect how the signal
propagates through open air, obstacles (e.g. walls and trees) and the type of radio required to capture them.
These characteristics are often standardized in the protocol and hardware and may have an effect on how
the signal is captured. Some examples of wireless protocols that may be found in cyber-physical
environments are: WirelessHART, Zigbee, WIA-FA, and 700 MHz Public Safety Spectrum.The adversary is locating information to assess and identify their targets in your environment.
Discovery consists of techniques that adversaries use to survey your ICS environment and gain knowledge about the internal network,
control system devices, and how their processes interact. These techniques help adversaries observe the environment and determine next
steps for target selection and Lateral Movement. They also allow adversaries to explore what they can control and gain insight on
interactions between various control system processes. Discovery techniques are often an act of progression into the environment which
enable the adversary to orient themselves before deciding how to act. Adversaries may use Discovery techniques that result in Collection, to
help determine how available resources beneﬁt their current objective. A combination of native device communications and functions, and
custom tools are often used toward this post-compromise information-gathering objective.
Version PermalinkID: TA0102
Created: 17 October 2018
Last Modiﬁed: 09 March 2023